


Academic Policies and Procedures - Chapman University - Acalog ACMS™












Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality.






















Skip to Content






















Jump to the main content of this page

             
        


                Some of the content on this website requires JavaScript to be enabled in your web browser to function as intended. This includes, but is not limited to: navigation, video, image galleries, etc. While the website is still usable without JavaScript, it should be enabled to enjoy the full interactive experience.
            












Find information for



Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families





Degrees & Programs


Map & Directories



Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories





News


Events


Social




 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        



Social hub









Search From



All


Blog Stories


Faculty Directory


Events


Main Website






                                             
                                        


                                                 
                                            








                             
                        



                                     
                                

Academics









About



About Overview


Maps and Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts and Rankings


Leadership


Connect





Academics



Academics Overview


Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study





Admission



Admission Overview


Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours





Alumni



Alumni Overview


Events


Get Involved


Career Support





Arts


Campus Life



Campus Life Overview


Athletics


Diversity and Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health and Safety


Residence Life


Student Life





Research



Research Overview


Sponsored Projects Services


Research Integrity


Institutes and Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support





Support



Support Chapman Overview


Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement










﻿

                                        Find
                                    



                                        Log in
                                    



Blackboard


My Chapman


Staff & Faculty Email


PantherMail


My Window








                                 
                            


                                     
                                




                         
                    





 Academics Logo ﻿



 Chapman University Logo ﻿






Academics Main Menu >



Degrees & Programs


Academic Calendar


Academic Integrity ﻿


Academic Integrity Violations


Academic Integrity Sanctions


Information for Faculty


Information for Students




Aims of Education


Catalogs


GE Program ﻿


Planning Your First Year GE Courses


First-year Foundation Courses


Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster


Shared Inquiry Courses


Global Citizen Cluster




Learning At Chapman ﻿


Program Review


Assessment


General Education Outcomes


Experiential Learning




Libraries


Schools and Colleges


Summer Session ﻿


How to Register


Summer FAQs


Who Should Enroll




University Honors Program ﻿


Prospective Students


Admitted Student Information 2018-2019


Current Students


Honors Courses


Activities and Events


The Honors Legacy


Academic Forms and Resources


Probation and Dismissal


Contact Us




War and Peace





Main Menu < Academics Menu



About




Maps & Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts & Rankings


Leadership


Connect




Academics




Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study




Admission




Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours




Alumni




Events


Get Involved


Career Support




Arts


Campus Life




Athletics


Diversity & Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health & Safety


Residence Life


Student Life




Research




Pre-Award Administration


Post-Award Administration


Research Integrity


Institutes & Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support




Support




Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement







Find information for…




Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families




Degrees & Programs


Maps & Directories




Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories




News


Events


Social








                         
                    










 






                                        Connect
                                    



News and Stories


Press Room


Events


Directory


Campus Visit







                                        Resources
                                    



A-Z Listing


Consumer Disclosures


Employment


Maps and Directions


Tuition and Aid


Privacy









                                        Services
                                    



Libraries


Disability Services


Title IX


Emergency Information


Report an Accessibility Concern







                                        Social
                                    


 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    



 





                                    65° F


                                    18° C





                                Main Campus
                            

One University Drive
Orange, CA 92866


                                (714) 997-6815
                            



                                Rinker Health Science Campus
                            

9401 Jeronimo Road
Irvine, CA 92618



                            © 2015 Chapman University
                        



Save





                /_featured/Default.xml
            

                Default
            

                Default
            

                Do Not Show
            

                Do Not Show
            






   
	Chapman University



   




 

 
				May 27, 2023			

 




2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog 







Select a Catalog
 2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog
2022-2023 Graduate Catalog
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]



  
																		
																		 
															

















Global Search








Catalog Search 

Choose Search Location



Select an option
Courses
Degrees
Hierarchy Items
Other Content
Entire Catalog









Search Keyword Field




Whole Word/Phrase




					Advanced Search				














Catalog Navigation




  Catalog Home
  Message from the President 
  Non-Discrimination Policy and Annual Security Reports 
  Academic Calendar 
  General Information 
  Undergraduate Admission 
  Expenses and Financial Aid 
  Student Life 
  Student Services 
  Academic Policies and Procedures 
  Undergraduate Degree Requirements 
 
  The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics 
  Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies 
  Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences 
  Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Sodaro-Pankey Undergraduate School of Media Arts 
  Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering 
  Schmid College of Science and Technology 
  Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences 
  School of Communication 
  College of Performing Arts 
  School of Pharmacy 
  University Programs 
 
  Undergraduate Degrees by School/College 
  Undergraduate Degree Programs 
  Graduate Degree Programs by School/College 
  Course Offerings 
 
  University Leadership and Faculty Listing 




















HELP
2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog 
							  Academic Policies and Procedures							  
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)  













General Information and Policies
Classroom Behavior
Course Information
Course Registration
Grading Policies
Internship Policies




Probation and Dismissal
Transfer Credit and Credit by Examination Policies
General Transfer Credit Policy
Academic Petition Process
Graduation Policies
Reserve Officers Training Corps, Air Force and Army
Academic Integrity Policy






General Information and Policies
Address Change
Students must notify the University of any change in their addresses or phone numbers. Such changes may be made through the online student self-service center, or a notification to the Office of the University Registrar from the student’s Chapman email address.
Attendance Policy
Class attendance policies are determined by each instructor and are included in the course syllabus distributed at the beginning of each term.
The University recommends as a minimal policy that students who are absent 20 percent of the course should be failed.
Students who do not attend the first class meeting of a course in which they are registered may be administratively dropped, unless they make arrangements with the instructor prior to the first day of class.
Catalog
Students must meet the degree requirements (including General Education and major) of the catalog under which they matriculated or may select a later catalog for a year in which they are enrolled.

Changing to a later catalog must be officially requested through the Office of the University Registrar via an email from the student’s Chapman email account.
Changes to a later catalog will not be processed during the registration appointment periods in April and November.
Students have a one-semester grace period to assess the changes in their new requirements during which they may return to their original catalog. After the grace period, the change in catalog year is irreversible.
Statements in the catalog are for informational purposes and should not be considered as the basis of a contract between students and the University.

In addition to the degree requirements and limitation of credit, students must adhere to the academic requirements, policies and procedures in place in the current catalog. Such requirements include but are not limited to course prerequisites, minimum grades for transfer work, academic probation and suspension requirements.
Information regarding any changes in degree programs, graduation requirements or academic policies will be made available by the Office of the University Registrar and the appropriate academic departments.
Class Level
Students are assigned class levels depending on the number of credits earned. 

First-year students have completed fewer than 30 credits;
Second-year students (sophomores) have completed 30-59.9 credits;
Third-year students (juniors) have completed 60-89.9 credits;
Fourth-year students (seniors) have completed 90+ credits.

Final Exams
All final exams must be taken during the final exams week according to the final exam schedule posted online by the Office of the University Registrar and available also in the online student self-service center.
Students are expected to attend their final exam as scheduled, and arrangements may not be made to accommodate a student’s travel preferences. Students should check their final exam schedule, available in their online student center, prior to scheduling travel at the end of a semester or term.
Students scheduled for three or more final exams on one day may ask the instructors of the courses with final exams scheduled in the middle of the day to provide an alternative date and time that also occurs during final exams week. These requests should be made two or more weeks before the last day of class. Faculty are strongly encouraged to accommodate these students.
Full- and Part-Time Students
A full-time undergraduate degree-seeking student is one who carries a minimum of 12 credits per semester. A part-time undergraduate degree-seeking student is one who carries fewer than 12 credits per semester. During interterm, a student carrying a minimum of three credits is considered a full-time student.
Integrated Undergraduate/Graduate Programs
An integrated program combines both undergraduate and graduate education by allowing the undergraduate student to be conditionally admitted into the graduate program while still completing all undergraduate degree requirements. The application process, prerequisites, GPA and graduate program requirements are as specified for each graduate program. Students will receive conditional admission to the graduate program, pending completion of their bachelor’s degree as stipulated in the graduate catalog. 
While still enrolled as undergraduates, students may take, and share, up to 15 credits, although some programs may permit less than 15 credits (please consult the degree section of the catalog for specific program permissions for the number of credits that can be taken and can be shared). Undergraduate students are required to have a minimum 3.000 GPA to enroll in graduate level courses. Undergraduate students must have either already earned 90 credits or be enrolled in and anticipate having earned 90 credits earned before the first day of the graduate course(s) in which they wish to enroll. Students must get permission from the instructor of the course and the chair of the department, academic unit head, or program director of the academic program unit offering the course. These signature approvals must be provided on the Undergraduate Request to Register for Graduate Course form, which is available on the University Registrar’s Forms page.
Graduate courses shared with undergraduate degree requirements will only appear on the undergraduate transcript. 
Students complete the remaining credit hours of graduate coursework beginning the semester after receiving the undergraduate degree. At minimum, 15 credits must be earned at the graduate, post-baccalaureate level. The minimum number of combined undergraduate and graduate credits required for any integrated bachelor’s/master’s program is 135 total credits. 
Interrupted Enrollment and Readmission
(See Undergraduate Admission )
Permit-to-Register Students
Permit-to-register students are not seeking a degree or credential, but are allowed to take courses during the semester. Undergraduate permit students may take no more than 9 credits per semester. If they are admitted to a program a maximum of 27 credits may count towards degree requirements. Permit-to-register students wishing to audit courses should refer to “course audit” section below for policies and deadlines.
Classroom Behavior
Faculty Rights and Procedures Concerning Student Classroom Behavior
Faculty members are responsible for ensuring an effective learning environment for all students in their classes, which encourages active student participation, including the right to raise questions and challenge information. Hence, faculty members also have the responsibility and authority to maintain appropriate student behavior. Classes are defined as including laboratories, internships, field placements or any settings that can be designated as a learning environment, such as travel studies and field trips.
Consequently, if a student is considered to be threatening or disruptive in the classroom, behaves in a way that interferes with the learning of other students or refuses to fulfill the academic requirements of the course, the faculty member has the right to have the student who demonstrates such behavior removed from the class, either by administrative withdrawal or by making arrangements for the student to complete the requirements in absentia.
The faculty member should immediately report the matter to the appropriate dean and department chair or academic unit head. The faculty member may also request the assistance of the dean of students to provide advice or to mediate the dispute.
A student who wishes to appeal the decision of the faculty member must submit the appeal in writing to the relevant academic dean within five working days of the decision. The dean will then conduct an investigation and respond to the student with a written decision within five working days. If, during the appeal, the dean determines that the faculty member is possibly at fault, the dean may address the situation directly with the faculty member or may refer the matter to the provost for disposition. If the student is dissatisfied with this outcome, he or she may submit a written appeal to the provost, whose decision in these matters is final and binding. During this period of appeal, the student may not return to class. Even if the student’s appeal is successful, the student may not return to the class unless the faculty member has specifically agreed to this. If the provost upholds the earlier decision, the student may still be subject to the student conduct system for further conduct review at the discretion of the dean of students.
Course Information
Course Numbering System
Courses are numbered as follows:
001-099 Remedial courses and courses not appropriate for college degree credit but designed to meet specific needs of individuals or groups where degree credit is not required. Remedial courses are noncredit courses.
100-299 Lower-division courses for first-year and sophomore levels; first-year level 100-199 and sophomore level 200-299.
129, 229, 329, 429 These numbers indicate experimental coursework offered by a department. Experimental courses are designed to offer additional opportunities to explore areas and subjects of special interest and may be repeated for credit if course content is different. Course topics, prerequisites and credits may vary. Some courses require student lab fees. Specific course details will be listed in the course schedule.
194, 294 These numbers indicate coursework offered through the Chapman Study Abroad program. Courses have been approved for credit but do not equate to any regular Chapman courses.
199, 299, 399, 499 Individual study courses.
290, 490 Internship courses.
291, 491 Student-faculty research and creative activity courses.
300-399 Upper-division courses for junior and senior levels. Sophomores may enroll provided they meet prerequisites and restrictions. First-year students are admitted with written consent of instructor and chair of department offering the course.
400-499 Upper-division courses for junior and senior levels. First-year students may not enroll. 
500-699 Graduate courses for graduate students and seniors meeting specific guidelines.
700-799 Post-master’s and doctoral courses.
Individually Directed Courses
Individually directed courses cannot be audited.
Reading and Conference Courses
Reading and conference courses are offered only (1) when the course is not being offered in the current term, (2) when necessary for a student to complete degree requirements. The courses are not offered to resolve scheduling conflicts with other classes nor to enable a student to meet financial aid or other eligibility criteria that are based on enrolled credits.
To enroll in reading and conference courses, students must complete a reading and conference form (available online on the Registrar’s Form webpage) and obtain the signatures of the department chair/program director of the unit offering the course and course instructor. After receiving approval, the student must submit the form to the Office of the University Registrar. A minimum of five hours of instruction for each credit is required for reading and conference courses.
Individual Study and Research
Individual study and research is offered to students to research particular topics that are not provided for by regular curriculum offerings.
Students should spend 40 to 50 hours in instruction and research for each credit of individual study.
To enroll in individual study and research, students must complete the individual study and research form (available online on the Registrar’s Forms webpage) and obtain the signatures of the course instructor and the department chair/program director of the academic program offering the course. After receiving approval, the student must submit the form to the Office of the University Registrar.
Student-Faculty Research and Creative Activity
Student-faculty research and creative activity is available to degree-seeking students only. Projects are normally extracurricular, meaning outside of a degree or minor program’s curriculum and requirements and outside of standard course structure. Student-faculty research and creative activity is not intended to replace a capstone in the major or to supply coverage for a gap in the curriculum/degree program.
For more information about student-faculty research and creative activity courses, including information on how to register, please visit the Center for Undergraduate Excellence’s, 291/491 Student-Faculty Research and Creative Activity for Course Credit website.
Online and Hybrid Courses
A limited variety of online and hybrid (also called blended) courses are available using the Canvas learning management system, through which Chapman students and faculty have access to document sharing, electronic discussion, Internet research and the use of other teaching and learning tools needed. Canvas offers a variety of online services, including announcements, community discussion and personal services such as a calendar, e-mail, task lists, online grades and others, depending on the activities and Canvas classes in which a student is enrolled.
Course Credit Hour Policy
All Chapman University courses are offered on the basis of credit hours or credits. One credit hour of coursework requires one face-to-face contact hour (note: one contact hour equals 50 minutes) per week between a faculty member and a student and two hours of assigned coursework per week on the part of the student outside of the classroom for a regular semester. The typical three-credit course requires three contact hours per week and six hours of assigned coursework per week or 45 contact hours and 90 hours of assigned coursework for a regular semester (15 weeks including the final exam period). Note that some classes meet beyond the scheduled class times based on the credits listed and that the number of contact hours and assigned coursework in lab courses, individually directed courses, non-traditional media-based courses and travel courses is tailored to the type of course and/or course objectives.
Lab courses are courses that have a strong skill component and typically require a special room, equipment or fieldwork experience for students to utilize to enhance their learning. One credit of a lab course requires a minimum of three contact hours, which may include a minimum of three hours of face-to-face contact hour per week between a faculty member and a student or a combination of face-to-face contact hours and assigned coursework to total three contact hours of engagement per week of instruction for a regular semester.
Individually directed courses provide a more in-depth interaction between student, faculty member and course materials or research project. Since, typically, a student works one-on-one with a faculty member and receives an intensified experience of personalized education, the contact hours and amount of assigned coursework are tailored to the nature of the coursework and may exceed the minimum requirements given below.
Reading and conference courses require a minimum of 5 hours of instructor-student contact per credit hour and a minimum of 30 hours of outside work per credit hour per semester.
Individual study and research courses require a minimum of 5 hours of instructor-student contact per credit hour and 30 hours of outside work per credit hour per semester. In these courses the program is designed by the faculty member and the student working collaboratively and approved prior to the start of the term.
Travel courses are courses that occur primarily off-campus such as elsewhere in the United States or abroad. Travel courses are measured in weeks, with each week garnering a maximum of one credit. Each credit requires a minimum of 15 hours of contact or experience and 30 hours of assigned coursework or experience per credit hour. For courses that have two weeks of travel, 15 contact hours are required before and/or after travel.
Online courses are courses that have few or no face-to-face contact hours between a faculty member and a student. Instead, student/faculty contact is mediated by the web. This contact can be either synchronous (e.g., chat or virtual classroom) or asynchronous (e.g., a discussion board). Whether synchronous or asynchronous, a faculty member is expected to offer course-related content to a student that engages a student for a total of 45 hours over the semester/trimester for a three-credit course. Student engagement may include some discussion with other students; however, it is expected that a faculty member will monitor and participate in discussion and provide an appropriate level of feedback at regular intervals during the semester/trimester. As with traditional courses, there should be a total of 90 hours of additional assigned coursework over the semester/trimester for a three-credit course.
Blended courses are courses with both face-to-face contact in a classroom setting and web-mediated contact between a faculty member and a student. Web-mediated contact can be either synchronous (e.g., chat or virtual classroom) or asynchronous (e.g., a discussion board). Web-mediated contact may include some discussion with other students in the class; however, it is expected that a faculty member will monitor and participate in discussion and provide an appropriate level of feedback at regular intervals during the semester/trimester. The total combined contact hours (face-to-face and web-mediated) should sum to 45 hours over the semester/trimester for a three-credit course. As with traditional courses, there should be a total of 90 hours of additional assigned coursework over the semester/trimester for a three-credit course.
Course Registration
Add/Drop
Students may add or drop courses during the add/drop period stated in the academic calendar (see Academic Calendar ) either via online student self-service center or in person at the Office of the University Registrar, depending upon course requirements or restrictions. Courses dropped during the add/drop period will not appear on the student’s academic transcript.
Students need to be aware that being placed by an instructor on the course roll does not constitute being officially registered for the course. Students officially register only through the online student self-service center at the Office of the University Registrar. After the add deadline, students may not attend courses without being officially enrolled in the course.
Students adding a course after the first week of the term must get the instructor’s approval in order to register for the course.
To add courses after the first week of classes but before the end of the add/drop period, students must use the permission number request form to be able to add a class. For instructions and information, see Permission Number Online Request Guide.
Administrative Drop
Students who do not attend the first class meeting of a course in which they are registered may be administratively dropped, unless they make arrangements with the instructor prior to the first day of class or the class is required per University-wide policy (e.g., MATH 100  or MATH 101 ).
Students should contact the instructor if a possible error has been made regarding an administrative drop.
Students should not assume that they will be administratively dropped for non-attendance from a class they do not wish to be enrolled in and should check their class schedule to ensure they are enrolled in the appropriate classes. It is the responsibility of the student to drop any courses in which they do not want to be enrolled by the appropriate deadlines on the academic calendar   to avoid receiving a W or WF notification on their transcript, and by the appropriate deadlines for any tuition refund that for which they may be eligible.
Course Audit
No credit is earned from audited classes. A notation of “AU” is assigned to audited classes and is not used in computing the GPA. Course requisites are enforced in the determination of registration eligibility for the course. Audit fees will be assessed. It is strongly recommended that students confer with their advisors prior to officially auditing a course.
No preregistration is allowed for courses taken as audit. Students must use the permission number request form and obtain the instructor’s permission to register for a course as audit. See Permission Number Online Request Guide for further information. The deadline for such a transaction is the same as the add/drop deadline for regular courses for all terms. Course requirements such as homework, exams and papers are not graded by the instructor for students who are auditing a course.
Not all courses are eligible to be audited.
Course Load
During regular semesters, students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits. Enrollment in more than 18 credits up to 21 credits, including coursework concurrently enrolled in at other institutions, requires at least a 3.000 Chapman cumulative GPA and completion of a minimum of 15 credits of graded coursework at Chapman. A maximum of 21 credits during a regular semester may be taken, including coursework concurrently enrolled at other institutions. Additional tuition is charged for registration in more than 18 credits taken at Chapman.
Probation students: Any student who is currently on Chapman academic probation with a Chapman cumulative GPA of less than 2.700 may enroll in no more than a total of 14 credits per semester at Chapman and concurrently at other institutions. Any student who is currently on Chapman academic probation with a Chapman cumulative GPA of 2.700 or higher may enroll in no more than a total of 16 credits per semester at Chapman and concurrently at other institutions.
Provisionally-admitted students: Any student admitted provisionally may enroll in no more than 15 credits in their first semester at Chapman.
Interterm: Students may not be enrolled in more than 4 credits within the 4-week time period of Chapman’s interterm, with the following exceptions:

Students who are taking an interterm course at Chapman of up to 4 credits and are also enrolled in a course at another institution that begins during Chapman’s interterm period but takes place over a minimum of 8 weeks, or
Students enrolled only at another institution with a 4-5 week session in January that offers a single course with a credit value more than 4 credits allowed at Chapman.

It is recommended that any student enrolling at another institution during any period that overlaps with Chapman’s Interterm schedule contact the Office of the University Registrar to ensure that they are not in violation of this policy. Students may email articulation@chapman.edu for further information and to clarify that any course they plan to take during any part of Chapman’s Interterm semester does not violate the credit limit policy and will therefore be able to be transferred.
Students may not petition this policy regarding interterm course load.
Course Load and Concurrent Registration at Another Institution
Any coursework taken at another institution that places a student in an overload status and that is not reported to the Office of the University Registrar may nullify the standard transfer of credit policy. Always contact the Office of the University Registrar regarding concurrent course approval processes prior to enrolling in a course intended for transfer to Chapman.
Registration: Appointment Assignments and Timetable
Currently enrolled students and students returning from an interrupted enrollment are assigned registration times based upon their completed credits as of the last term of attendance at Chapman. Students may register on or after their assigned time via the online self-service student center. Registration is not complete until all charges are paid or arrangements have been made in the Business Office.
New students and students returning to Chapman outside the interrupted enrollment limitations will be assigned online registration appointments following appointments assigned to currently enrolled students.
Continuing undergraduate students are advised that enrollment is closed in summer during the time period of new first-year and transfer registration periods.
Registering for Graduate Courses as Undergraduate
Undergraduate students are allowed to enroll in 500- and 600-level courses according to the following guidelines:

Students must get permission from the instructor of the course and the chair of the department, academic unit head, or program director of the academic program unit offering the course. These signature approvals must be provided on the Undergraduate Request to Register for Graduate Course form, which is available on the University Registrar’s forms page, or at the Office of the University Registrar.
Students may enroll in a maximum of 15 graduate credits, depending upon the student’s academic program.
Undergraduate students must have a minimum 3.000 Chapman cumulative GPA and a minimum of 90 credits that are completed or will be completed prior to the start of the graduate course.
If a student is not in an integrated (formerly accelerated) undergraduate/graduate program the coursework will be considered graduate level and the credits will not count toward undergraduate credit requirements.  If the student wants the course to be applied to the undergraduate degree they must inform the Office of the University Registrar at the time of registration; in such cases the course will only count toward the undergraduate degree.
Students in an integrated (formerly accelerated) undergraduate/graduate program should consult the guidelines for the program for any special conditions on enrollment into a graduate course that is part of the accelerated program.

Course Changes (Add/Drop, Withdrawal)
Students who officially withdraw from a course between the third and the tenth week of a regular term (see Academic Calendar  for interterm and summer deadlines) will receive a non-punitive notation of “W” on their transcripts, indicating the withdrawal.
Students cannot withdraw from a course after the tenth week of a regular semester. (See Academic Calendar  for interterm and summer deadlines.) It is the student’s responsibility to withdraw officially from a course or all courses.
Failure to attend a course does not constitute a withdrawal. Students who stop attending courses without officially withdrawing will receive a grade of “FW” (failure to withdraw), which is calculated as an “F” grade in a student’s GPA.
Grading Policies
Challenging a Grade
Professors, as experts in their fields, have the final authority in assigning student grades, except for cases involving clear evidence of capricious grading or failure to follow the professional standards of the discipline.
Faculty members may change final grades after submission to the Office of the University Registrar only to fix a clerical error. Furthermore, additional work may not be assigned to enable the student to receive a higher grade.
However, a student who believes they have received a grade based on capricious or unprofessional grading may request a Grade Review, which is an explanation of the grade and reconsideration, from the instructor. Students may submit evidence in conjunction with the Grade Review request, and the instructor will consider all evidence submitted. As a professional scholar and educator, the instructor should be able to explain the grading criteria, how the criteria meet the standards of the discipline, and how the student’s grade is derived from these criteria. All Grade Review requests must be submitted to the instructor, in writing, within 30 calendar days from the date the grade was assigned; the instructor has 10 business days to respond in writing to the student’s written request.
If decided unfavorably for the student by the instructor or if the student has received no response from the instructor after 10 business days, the student may request a Grade Review from the department chair/program director (or from the associate dean if the department chair/program director is the instructor of the course). A Grade Review request must be submitted, in writing, to the department chair/program director by the student either (1) within 10 business days of receiving the instructor’s decision, or (2) within 10 business days of the closure of the 10-business-day response period in cases of instructor non-response.
After the department chair/program director notifies the student of their decision in writing, the student may request a Grade Review by the dean of the academic unit provided the following grounds for further review are demonstrated:

Substantive evidence that the grade review process was not followed in accordance with the grade review policy, or
Compelling new evidence not previously available to the student that could serve as cause for reconsideration of the prior decision.

Any request for review by the dean must be submitted in writing within 10 business days of the student’s receipt of the decision from the dean’s office. Students should submit their request via Chapman email directly to the dean’s email address. The subject line of the email should state “DEAN GRADE REVIEW REQUEST” and the student’s full name and ID number should be in the body of the email, not the subject line. The student’s email must include the following:

A signed cover statement presenting the reasons for the Grade Review request with specific reference to one or both of the grounds described above. Submissions without grounds will be returned without review.
Documentation, including a copy of the original Grade Review request and all materials previously submitted.
A copy of all previous written decisions regarding the Grade Review.

The student will be notified of the decision of the dean in writing within ten (10) days.
After the dean notifies the student of their decision, the student may request a Grade Review by Vice Provost for undergraduate education only if there is substantive evidence that the grade review process was not followed by the dean in accordance with the grade review policy. A Grade Review by the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education is procedural only and is not an opportunity for another review of the arguments and evidence previously presented by the student.
Any request for review by the Vice Provost must be submitted within ten (10) business days of the student’s receipt of the decision from the dean’s office. Students should submit their request via Chapman email directly to ProvostOfficeUGAcadAppealSubmissions@chapman.edu. The subject line of the email should state “VICE PROVOST GRADE REVIEW PROCESS REQUEST” and the student’s full name and ID number should be in the body of the email. The student’s email must include the following:

A signed cover statement presenting the reasons for the Grade Review request with specific reference to substantive evidence that the Grade Review process was not followed by the dean in accordance with the grade review policy. Submissions without grounds will be returned without review.
Documentation, including a copy of the original Grade Review request and all materials previously submitted.
A copy of all previous written decisions regarding the Grade Review.

The Vice Provost for Graduate Education will notify the student of their decision within ten (10) business days and will remand the Grade Review request back to the Dean for reconsideration if substantive evidence that the Grade Review process was not followed by the dean in accordance with the grade review policy is presented.
All references to submissions in writing include submissions via email to the appropriate party. Email is preferable because it provides an electronic record of the request and dates of submission. Students should always use their Chapman email account for these submissions. Email through official Chapman accounts is considered an official communication method.
Changing a Grade
Faculty members may change final grades after submission to the Office of University Registrar only for clerical error. Furthermore, additional work may not be assigned to enable the student to receive a higher grade.
Courses Repeated for Higher Grades
Most undergraduate-level courses numbered 100-499 at Chapman may be repeated to improve the grade. The lower grade remains on the record with a notation that the course has been repeated. Only the higher grade and credit are computed in the GPA. “P” grades will be calculated as described in the “Pass/No Pass” section and will be considered the higher grade only in cases where the original grade was “C-D+” or below. “NP” grades will never be considered as the higher grade and the original grade will remain in effect.
Credit is given only once for a repeated course, except as noted in the course description. It is recommended that a course be repeated as soon as practical if it is to be taken for a higher grade. In exercising this option, an undergraduate student must repeat the course at Chapman University. Repeats will be assessed after grades are posted.
Grades earned at Chapman remain counted in the student’s GPA if the coursework is repeated at another institution.
Grade Points
Grades and corresponding grade points follow:



 
grade
grade points


excellent
A
			A-
			B+
4.0
			3.7
			3.3


very good
B
			B-
3.0
			2.7


satisfactory
C+
			C
			C-
2.3
			2.0
			1.7


unsatisfactory
D+
			D
1.3
			1.0


minimum passing
D-
0.7


failing
F
0.0


failure to withdraw
FW
0.0


pass
P
 


no pass
NP
 


incomplete
I
 


withdraw
W
 


not reported
NR
 


audit
AU
 


satisfactory progress
SP
 



Incomplete Grades
The grade of Incomplete may be assigned by an instructor if a student, through circumstances beyond their control, has not completed a small portion of a course by the conclusion of the term. The student must request the grade of Incomplete and must propose a date acceptable to the faculty member by which the missing work will be completed.
A grade of Incomplete may not be assigned to give a student a chance to do more work to improve a grade.
A grade of Incomplete may also be assigned by an instructor if academic integrity is in question at the time grades are due and the instructor requires more time to resolve the issue.
The deadline for removal of an Incomplete is one year from the first day of the term in which the Incomplete was recorded, unless a shorter period of time is specified by the instructor. In certain circumstances in which the student must attend the class to fulfill the remaining requirements, and when the course is not offered every semester/trimester, at the instructor’s discretion, the deadline for removal of the Incomplete will be one year from the end of the term in which the Incomplete was recorded. The deadline determined by the faculty member must be specified at the time of original submission of the incomplete grade.
When issuing an Incomplete grade, instructors may issue the grade the student would have earned by assessing scores on all graded requirements. This grade is determined by including all zero points for all missing assignments in the calculation of the final grade. If the agreed upon remaining coursework is not completed in the period allotted, the assessed grade will become the grade of record.
If the instructor determines that the student would receive an “F” grade based upon the zero point calculation, then an “I” grade is entered as the final grade, with zero credit given and zero points calculated. “I” grades will become “F” or “NP” if the agreed upon coursework is not completed in the period allotted.
Pass/No Pass
Undergraduates may take up to six semester credits per academic year (considered Fall through end of Summer semesters) on a Pass/No Pass basis, excluding courses offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis.

Students should consult with the department chair regarding the choice of “P/NP” grading for courses in the major.
Some courses require letter grades only and other courses allow only Pass/No Pass as the grading option.
Courses that are only Pass/No Pass are noted in the course descriptions.
The calculation of the number of credits taken P/NP within the academic year includes credits for any courses taken in transfer that have a P/NP grade.

After initial registration in a course, in order to change the grading methodology (e.g., to “P/NP”) for a class, students must submit a registration form to the Office of the University Registrar make the change to the grading methodology of a course through their online student self-service center by the end of the fifth week for fall and spring semesters. (See Academic Calendar   for corresponding dates for interterm and summer semesters.) Changes in grading basis can only be done prior to the deadline through the online student self-service center. Once a course is graded, students cannot request a change in grading methodology.
A student who satisfactorily completes a “P/NP” course with a “C-” or higher will receive a “P” grade. Credit will be granted. However, no grade points are assigned and the “P” grade it is not computed in the GPA. 
A grade of “NP” (no pass) will be assigned when the requirements for credit in the course have not been satisfied at the level of “C-” or higher. “NP” grades are given for “D+” and below. No credit is granted, no grade points are assigned and the “NP” is not computed in the GPA.
Transfer and Cumulative GPA Calculation

All transferable credit attempted is calculated into the transfer and cumulative GPAs. This includes courses not meeting the minimum “C-” grade for transfer.
When a course is repeated in transfer from one or more transfer institutions, the credit and grade for the course with the higher grade is counted in the transfer and cumulative GPAs.
When a course is repeated between Chapman and a transfer institution, only credit for one course will apply and both grades are calculated into the cumulative GPA.

Internship Policies

Chapman University allows students to receive academic credit for both paid and unpaid internships.
Internship courses follow the same tuition and credit policies outlined in the Tuition and Interterm policies (See the Expenses and Financial Aid  sections of the catalog).
Internship registration deadlines are posted annually on the Academic Calendar . If a student misses the deadlines to register their internship, they may petition to late-add the course if there is justification for the lateness in filing. No internship can be added for a semester that has been completed.
Virtual/remote internships are generally not allowed. All remote internships must be approved by the Internship Coordinator prior to applying for academic credit.
A maximum of 12 credits of internship may be counted toward the baccalaureate degree. See Limitation of Credit  in the Undergraduate Degree Requirements  section of the catalog. Some degree programs also limit the amount of internship credit that may be counted toward completion of a major or minor.
A maximum of 6 credits of internship courses may be completed at the same internship site.
No internship nor practicum credit is accepted in transfer. See General Transfer Credit Policy below in the Transfer Credit and Credit by Examination section of the catalog.
No retroactive internship credit may be awarded for hours worked without registration in an internship course.
Hours may only count for credit during the academic term in which a student is registered.

Internship Credits and Hours
Credits per internship range by department from .5 to 6 credits. Students must complete 20 hours of internship work for each .5 credit registered, or 40 hours for each credit registered. A 3-credit internship requires 120 credits working at the internship site.
Internship Registration
Students who need immediate credit on their records for financial aid purposes or for full-time student status can enroll in an Internship Placeholder Course, INTP 290 Independent Internship, or INTP 490 Independent Internship, until official course registration is processed. Permission to register in INTP 290/490 is obtained by contacting Student Career Support services. Students must complete the Internship Placeholder Form when enrolling for an Internship Placeholder Course.
Students should consult the Internships at Chapman University webpage for detailed information on the internship registration process.
Internship Grades
Independent internships are graded by the student’s Faculty Internship Advisor on a Pass/No Pass basis. Seminar internships may be subject to letter grade.
If an internship for a seminar course is not secured by the 5th week of the term per the academic calendar, the student is expected to withdraw from the course, resulting in an automatic W notation on their transcript.
Probation and Dismissal
Academic Probation
Any student whose term or Chapman cumulative GPA drops below 2.000 will be placed on academic probation.

Students on academic probation may enroll in no more than 14 semester credits each term they are on probation, if their Chapman cumulative GPA is less than 2.700.
Students on academic probation may enroll in no more than 16 semester credits if their Chapman cumulative GPA is 2.700 or higher.
In addition, students on academic probation will be expected to consult with the Academic Advising Center staff for guidance and assistance regarding methods of improving their academic status. Optimally, such consultation should occur no later than two weeks into the semester in which the student has been placed on probation.

Academic Dismissal
A student is subject to academic dismissal from the University if

the student’s Chapman cumulative GPA remains below 2.000 for two consecutive semesters or
the student’s Chapman term GPA falls below 2.000 for two consecutive semesters and their cumulative GPA falls below 2.700.

Students who wish to appeal an academic dismissal must demonstrate both extraordinary circumstances explaining the unsatisfactory academic performance and a likelihood of success if allowed to continue at Chapman.
Dismissed students who seek to return must demonstrate a substantial likelihood of success if allowed to return. Such likelihood of success may be demonstrated in part by successfully completing at another regionally accredited institution a minimum of 12 letter-graded transferable credits in one term with a term GPA of at least 2.400, with no grade lower than a “C.” Verification of this information through an official transcript must accompany the petition for reinstatement. Prior to beginning coursework elsewhere, it is recommended that students contact the Academic Advising Center to review the coursework they plan on taking outside Chapman University to ensure the courses fulfill the requirements set forth by Chapman. In accordance with the University’s graduation requirements not all credits may be accepted in transfer upon a student’s return.
Students who have been awarded financial aid or Veterans Administration benefits for the coming semester are advised that academic dismissal carries with it the cancellation of any financial aid or benefits. Students who are reinstated may be reconsidered for financial aid at that time. However, reinstatement does not necessarily mean that financial aid will be available for that semester or any future semester.
Students seeking to return within two years of dismissal must submit their requests to be reinstated to the Student Standards Committee via the Office of the University Registrar. Students seeking to return after more than two years from the time of dismissal must reapply for admission via the Office of Admission.
All students who return after academic dismissal will be placed in a probation status. Reinstated students may enroll in no more than 14 semester credits and are required to earn a term GPA of at least 2.400 or achieve a Chapman cumulative GPA of at least 2.000. Any student who fails to achieve a Chapman cumulative GPA of at least 2.000 will remain in probation status. Any reinstated student who remains on probation after two semesters will be subject to permanent dismissal.
Permanent Dismissal
Once a student is permanently dismissed by the Student Standards Committee, the only appeal available is to the Office of the Provost.
Transfer Credit and Credit by Examination Policies
Credit by Examination
Chapman recognizes the need for educational flexibility and opportunity. The University accepts the use of national standardized and recognized testing instruments to measure knowledge acquired outside the classroom. Credit will be given only for exams that meet Chapman standards. Regarding AP, IB, CLEP and DSST examinations and acceptable minimum scores for approved exams, score requirements and credit granted, see the Office of the University Registrar Transfer Credit and Articulation website. 
Advanced Placement (AP)
Credit is awarded for approved AP exams that meet the minimum score requirements. Students must submit an official AP score report to Chapman University for credit consideration.
International Baccalaureate (IB)
Credit is awarded for approved IB exams that meet the minimum score and diploma requirements. Students must submit an official IB score report or diploma transcript to Chapman University for credit consideration.
College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) and DANTES Subject Standardized Test (DSST)
Credit is awarded for approved CLEP or DSST examinations and may apply toward General Education requirements. Students seeking to fulfill major requirements must have preapproval from the department chair. Elective credit only will be awarded for CLEP general exams. Please refer to the “Regulations Governing Credit by Examination” section of the catalog for additional policies related to earning credit by exam.
Chapman awards credit to students whose score meets the established minimum for approved CLEP and DANTES Subject Examinations. For more information, contact the Office of the University Registrar. Only elective credit will be awarded for CLEP general exams.
Brigham Young University’s Foreign Language Achievement Testing Service (BYU FLATS)
Brigham Young University’s Foreign Language Achievement Testing Service (BYU FLATS) is accepted by Chapman to demonstrate foreign language proficiency. Students wishing to waive out of the Language Study requirement may do so with a passing score at the 201 level of the BYU FLATS. No credit is awarded. Proctoring for these exams is not available at Chapman University. For more information and to find a testing location, please contact BYU FLATS directly.
Regulations Governing Credit by Examination

When credit through examination is awarded, it is not included in the GPA.
After matriculation, students may take each exam only once. If they do not receive passing scores, they will be required to complete the necessary coursework.
Students must be currently enrolled and matriculated at Chapman to take institutional challenge examinations.
Students are encouraged to consult with their academic advisers concerning the degree applicability of the test prior to registering for it.
Credit by examination will not be awarded when equivalent coursework has been attempted.
Credit will not be granted for specific examinations for a course or subject area in which the student has received instruction in a college or university or in a foreign language that is native to the student.
A maximum of 32 credits may be earned via passing courses by examination.
Credit by examination cannot be awarded for lower-division introductory courses after students have completed more advanced courses in the same area.
Chapman does not provide supervised testing outside of its own math and language placement examinations. Contact the Academic Advising Center for further information on alternate sites available locally.
Chapman does not recognize other institutions’ credit by exam, proficiency or challenge exams. Only nationally recognized exams approved by Undergraduate Academic Council are accepted.

Chapman Departmental Examinations
Subject matter examinations developed by academic departments at Chapman to measure achievement in specific areas are available for some courses through the online testing. Information is provided by the Academic Advising Center or the department offering the tests. Proficiency in subject matter can be used to meet prerequisites or waive specific course requirements. No credit is awarded.
General Transfer Credit Policy

Only credit from regionally accredited institutions is evaluated for transferability.
Credit is only given for baccalaureate courses.
Credit is not given for preparatory-level, technical, vocational, professional and work experience/co-op credit. For further information on courses not accepted for credit see Limitation of Credit  in the Undergraduate Degree Requirements section of this catalog.
A total of not more than 15 credits of baccalaureate-level correspondence, extension or continuing education courses may be accepted. Of these 15 credits, no more than six credits may apply toward general education credit and no more than six credits may apply toward the major. General education courses must be approved by the Office of the University Registrar and major courses must be approved by the department chair.
Minimum grade of “C-” is required for transfer credit.
A maximum of 70 semester credits of community college credit will be applied toward the bachelor’s degree. (See Limitation of Credit  in the Undergraduate Degree Requirements section of the catalog.)
No limit is placed on the number of transferable credits from regionally accredited four-year colleges or universities prior to matriculation. A student however, must meet all the credit, grade and residence requirements as stated in the Undergraduate Degree Requirements  section in the catalog. 
No internship or practicum credit is accepted in transfer.
Independent study and special topics credit in transfer is not automatically accepted. Materials detailing the content studied may be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar for credit consideration.
Credit will not be granted for coursework that duplicates other courses successfully completed, unless specifically allowed by the institutions involved.
California State University (CSU) transferability does not guarantee that courses taken will transfer to Chapman.
A student is allowed to transfer a Massively Open Online Course (MOOC) if the institution sponsoring the MOOC grants institutional academic credit to any student for successful completion of the MOOC.
For additional information, refer to Graduation Requirements  in the Undergraduate Degree Requirements section of the catalog.

General Education (GE) Block Transfer
Completion of the full California State University GE Breadth certification or University of California Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (UC IGETC) certification or an ADT, AA-T, or AS-T degree from a California community college or equivalent GE transfer degree or certification from an out-of-state community college prior to matriculation satisfies all GE areas, except the following:

2 upper division Themed Inquiry (Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster) courses (6 credits)
Language requirement

General Education (GE) Block Transfer from CSU or UC System schools only
Transfer credit is evaluated on a course-by-course basis for general education requirements. Based on total transferable credits, excluding AP, IB, A-Level and dual credit, students transferring to Chapman with 60 or more credits prior to matriculation will satisfy the following GE areas:

First-year Focus.
Two lower-division Themed Inquiry (Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster) courses (6 credits)

Students transferring to Chapman with 30 to 59 credits, excluding AP, IB A-Level and dual credit, prior to matriculation will satisfy the following GE areas:

First-Year Focus
One lower-division Themed Inquiry (Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster) course (3 credits)

General Education (GE) First Year Focus Course (FFC) Requirement Waiver
The First-Year Focus Course (FFC) requirement is waived for students who have transferred in 24 or more credits from another institution of higher education prior to matriculation. Dual credit (AP, IB, A-Level or college-level coursework) completed while in high school is not included; the 24 transferable credits must follow the completion of secondary school.
Students who have attended a four-year institution prior to matriculation at Chapman, and who have taken at that institution a first-year seminar course for a minimum of 3 semester credits that is focused on critical thinking, may request to have this course evaluated to substitute for the FFC requirement. A syllabus of the prior course must be provided. The request for articulation of the course for FFC and the syllabus should be emailed to articulation@chapman.edu.
International Transfer Credit
Chapman University considers for transfer academic credit earned at international institutions that are fully accredited degree-granting institutions recognized by their country’s Ministry of Education. Only courses that meet general transfer credit policy will be accepted. Evaluation of credit is done at the time of admission based on official transcripts.
English Language Courses: Credit is not awarded for coursework in English language instruction abroad.
General Certificate of Education (GCE) A-level credit: Chapman recognizes the British A-Level curriculum as lower-division degree-applicable credit. Two semesters’ worth of credit is awarded per subject for grades “D” and higher and one semester of credit for AS-Advanced Subsidiary. No credit is granted for any grades below a “D” (equivalent to “C” in the United States).
Students must provide their original A-level certificates to have their scores evaluated for credit. Provisional certificates or “statement of provisional results” are not accepted to award credit but may be submitted for unofficial evaluation to determine placement or prerequisites if official certificates are not available prior to the start of the first semester at Chapman. Exam descriptions are required for course equivalency designation.
Military Credit
Military students are awarded 6 credits for a minimum of one year of United States military service terminated under honorable conditions. A certified copy of a DD-214 or DD-295 is required. Additional transfer credit may be awarded under the following conditions:

Submission of official Joint Services Transcripts (JST) utilizing ACE guidelines.
Only military training and experience with a credit recommendation at the lower-division or upper-division baccalaureate degree category is eligible for consideration.
Written endorsement from Chapman faculty in the discipline area the credit/experience falls under must be submitted with transfer credit petition.
Final approval granted by the Undergraduate Academic Council.

Transfer and Cumulative GPA Calculation

All transferable credit attempted is calculated into the transfer and cumulative GPAs. This includes courses not meeting the minimum “C-” grade for transfer.
When a course is repeated in transfer from one or more transfer institutions, the credit and grade for the course with the higher grade is counted in the transfer and cumulative GPAs.
When a course is repeated between Chapman and a transfer institution, only credit for one course will apply and both grades are calculated into the cumulative GPA.

Transfer of Credit from Study Abroad Programs Not Affiliated with Chapman University
All study abroad credit taken independently will be considered transfer credit and is subject to the transfer policy described in the current catalog. Students who decide to study abroad during the semester or summer without enrolling in one of Chapman University’s study-abroad programs should be sure to read the information posted on the Office of the University Registrar’s Transfer Credit and Articulation website regarding transfer of credit. Interested students are required to submit forms and information to the Center for Global Education, to the Office of the University Registrar, to the Dean of Students Office and to other campus offices according to the terms outlined by the program. Student applicants must provide the name of the intended university program and the location of the study abroad site and must have courses reviewed for transfer before departure. Depending on previously transferred credits, academic program, completed credits, class level and catalog year, students may not be eligible to earn additional credit in transfer.
International internship credit and independent study credit as part of an independent study abroad program will not be accepted in transfer. Transcripts from overseas institutions and programs must be in English with accompanying credit and grade conversions. If the transcript is in a foreign language, the independent study abroad participant will be responsible for paying a translation-service fee. Students who select programs that are not affiliated with Chapman are subject to a reduction of advising and transfer resources when compared to Chapman supported programs.
Preapproval and Reevaluation of Transfer Credit
Students requesting preapproval or reevaluation of transfer credit should refer to the Office of the University Registrar’s Transfer Credit Policies and Guidelines webpage for detailed information.
Academic Petition Process
Academic Petitions
Chapman University is sensitive to the educational advantages of a flexible curriculum but is also conscious of a responsibility to ensure equity for all students. Permission to deviate from published regulations is neither automatic nor done as a formality; each request is considered on its own merits and in light of the petitioner’s complete academic record. Internal guidelines have been established to help faculty councils and committee members who review student petition requests with their deliberations on individual cases. These guidelines are not intended in any way to discourage or encourage someone to seek exception to University regulations, nor should it be inferred that these guidelines mean automatic approval of a petition request.
The Faculty Undergraduate Academic Council is responsible for creating academic policies and procedures within the University. The Faculty Student Standards Committee and the General Education Committee report to the Undergraduate Academic Council.
A student’s petition to deviate from general university policies is submitted to the Office of the University Registrar via a Undergraduate Petition form. These forms may be secured online on the University Registrar’s Forms webpage. Initial petition review is by the Student Standards Petitions sub-committee. Petitions requiring further review are sent to the appropriate review authority, as follows:
Undergraduate Academic Council:

Limitation or acceptance of credits.
Self-designed majors.
Other degree-related issues.

Student Standards Committee:

Adding or dropping courses after enrollment deadlines.
Changing the grading option after the specified deadline.
Overload of credit.
Late withdrawal of courses not related to a medical reason, family emergency or military/occupational relocation (done via dean of students).
Other miscellaneous petitions.

General Education Committee:

General Education requirements.
Self-designed minors.

The decisions on petitions/requests made by the above units are recorded in the student’s record. 
The following policies may not be petitioned by students:

A student may not petition to graduate with less than 120 credits, which is the minimum number of credits required for graduation.
A student may not petition to graduate with less than a 2.000 GPA, which is the minimum Chapman GPA and cumulative GPA (including non-Chapman credits) required for graduation.
A student may not petition to have the non-punitive W (withdrawal) mark for a late course withdrawal removed from his/her transcript.
A student may not petition for an overload beyond 4 credits for the interterm semester. (See Course Load under Course Registration as listed above.)

Appeals Process
Students may appeal a decision of the Undergraduate Academic Council, General Education Committee or Student Standards Committee, however, an appeal is not an opportunity for another review of the arguments and evidence previously presented by the student to the faculty on the relevant council or committees. To file an appeal, the student must provide documented evidence demonstrating one or both of the following grounds for appeal:

Procedural error made by the presiding council or committee.
Additional evidence that could serve as cause for further review.

Students who wish to appeal a decision of the Undergraduate Academic Council, General Education Committee or Student Standards Committee must submit a written appeal within 10 working days of the date they are notified of the decision of the presiding council or committee. The written appeal must include the following:

A signed cover statement presenting the reasons for the appeal with specific reference to one or both of the grounds for appeal described above.
Documentation, including a copy of the original petition and all materials submitted to the presiding council or committee.
A copy of the written decision of the presiding council or committee.

The appeal and accompanying documents submitted to the Office of the University Registrar will be forwarded to the Office of the Provost and will not be returned to the student.
Students submitting appeals may request to meet with the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education to discuss their appeals. This meeting should normally occur within five working days of submission of the materials described above. The Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education will consult with the presiding council or committee, and any other relevant parties, in reviewing the appeal.
Students will be notified of the decision of the Office of the Provost in writing. The decision of the Office of the Provost on the student academic appeals is final and there is no additional process of appeal.
Graduation Policies
Application for Degree Conferral
Although a student may have completed all requirements, graduation is not automatic. Every degree candidate is required to submit the online Application for Degree Conferral with the Office of the University Registrar. Students can apply for degree conferral after they have completed 90 credits. This does not include in-progress coursework. If the student should fail to complete requirements by the intended graduation date, the student must immediately request a future graduation date. If a student fails to complete requirements and has not requested the application be moved to a future date, the Office of the University Registrar will move the intended graduation date to the next conferral period.
Submission of the application is done online through the student’s online student self-service center. For information on how to submit the application and application deadlines, refer to the University Registrar’s Application for Degree Conferral Deadlines website. All degree requirements must be completed and all courses taken must be assigned a final grade by the last day of the month in which the degree is to be conferred. Work completed at external institutions must be received on or before the conferral date to meet degree requirements.
Commencement
Formal University commencement ceremonies are held annually in May. To participate in ceremonies, students must RSVP online. To be eligible, at the time of the participation form deadline, students must have filed the online Application for Degree Conferral. For further commencement event information visit the Chapman Commencement webpage.
Release of Transcripts and Diplomas
No diplomas are released to any student who has an unpaid balance to Chapman University, or to any Chapman sponsored agency or who has not completed the required Financial Aid exit interview.
Diplomas are mailed out approximately six to ten weeks after the date of conferral of the degree. Under no circumstances will a diploma be released prior to the conferral date.
Unless otherwise allowed by Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) regulations, all official transcripts are issued only with written permission of the student. Students may can find information on requesting official transcripts on the University Registrar’s Student Services Ordering Official Transcripts webpage. Current students may obtain an unofficial transcripts through the their online student self-service center.
Student Responsibility
It is the responsibility of each graduating student to refer to their program evaluation in their online student self-service center to check which requirements have been completed and which requirements still need to be completed. A student may not shift this responsibility to an adviser or to the staff of the Office of the University Registrar. It is recommended that students check their program evaluation regularly. Checking the program evaluation after registration will ensure that the courses for which the student has just registered meet the needed requirements for graduation. Questions should always be referred to the Office of the University Registrar.
Academic Honors
Cheverton Trophy
A gift of the class of 1929, the Cheverton Trophy displays the name of the graduating senior who has earned at Chapman at least 48 credits, has a cumulative GPA of at least 3.750, has made outstanding contributions to student activities, exhibits leadership skills and best represents the spirit of Chapman. The trophy remains on permanent display at the University.
Departmental Honors
Students who achieve outstanding performance in their major are eligible for consideration for departmental honors. Inquire at the department or school about the particular requirements.
Graduating with Honors
A student with superior academic achievement throughout their University career may be graduated with University honors. To be eligible for honors, the student must have a Chapman GPA and cumulative GPA, including all transfer work, at or above the specific honors criterion. A minimum of 54 credits must be Chapman coursework and taken for letter grades. Categories of honors are cum laude (3.500 GPA), magna cum laude (3.700 GPA) and summa cum laude (3.900 GPA). Continuing education courses will not be counted for residence credit. For notation of honors at the May commencement ceremony, a student must have all degree requirements completed or pending for May conferral date, including a minimum of 54 letter-graded Chapman credits.
Provost List
Published at the end of each semester, the Provost List includes the names of all full-time students who maintain a 3.800 GPA or higher in at least 12 credits of residence coursework taken for a letter grade. This excludes continuing education and courses by examination. Assigned Incompletes must have grades recorded within 30 days after the end of the semester to be considered for the Provost List.
Deans’ List
Published at the end of each semester, the Deans’ List includes the names of all full-time students who maintain a 3.600 - 3.799 GPA in at least 12 credits of residence coursework taken for a letter grade. This excludes continuing education and courses by examination. Assigned Incompletes must have grades recorded within 30 days after the end of the semester to be considered for the Deans’ List.
Phi Beta Kappa
Phi Beta Kappa recognizes and honors exceptional academic achievement in the arts and sciences. It is a mark of outstanding personal achievement and an honor conferred upon fewer than ten percent of each graduating class. Students do not apply for membership. They are selected during the spring semester each year by the Phi Beta Kappa chapter as a whole, after a careful review of the academic records of each eligible candidate. More information can be found at the Chapman Psi Chapter of California  webpage.
University Honors Program
See the University Honors Program   section of the catalog for information on the University Honors Program.   
Reserve Officers Training Corps, Air Force and Army
Undergraduates and graduate students can participate in ROTC. Chapman has agreements for Army ROTC with California State University, Fullerton and Air Force ROTC with California State University San Bernardino and University of Southern California (USC). Please contact the Director of the Veterans Resource Center for information on the programs at 714-516-5776 or veterans@chapman.edu.
Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps (AFROTC)
AFROTC is a nationwide program that allows students to pursue commissions (become officers) in the United States Air Force (USAF) while simultaneously attending college. AFROTC classes are held on college campuses throughout the United States and Puerto Rico; students can register through normal course registration processes. AFROTC consists of four years of Aerospace Studies classes (Foundations of the USAF, Evolution of USAF and Space Power, Air Force Leadership Studies, and National Security Affairs/Preparation for Active Duty), and a corresponding Leadership Laboratory for each year (where students apply leadership skills, demonstrate command and effective communication, develop physical fitness, and practice military customs and courtesies). College students enrolled in the AFROTC program (known as “cadets”) who successfully complete both AFROTC training and college degree requirements will graduate and simultaneously commission as Second Lieutenants in the Active Duty Air Force. The AFROTC program is currently offered at California State University, San Bernardino, but they have a crosstown agreement that allows our students to enroll in AFROTC and become full-fledged cadet participants. For more information on the AFROTC program, please review the California State University San Bernardino’s Air Force ROTC webpage, and for information about the AFROTC courses visit the Aerospace Studies AFROTC Program Course Breakdown and LLabs webpage.
Through arrangements with California State University, San Bernardino (CSUSB), and the University of Southern California (USC), students may participate in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) Program. Aerospace studies classes and leadership laboratories are conducted at various times during the week on the main campuses of CSUSB and USC.
AFROTC offers a variety of two-, three- and four-year scholarships, many of which pay the full cost of tuition, books and fees. Successful completion of as little as six (three years) semesters of AFROTC academic classes and leadership laboratories can lead to a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Air Force.
Classes consist of one hour of academics and two hours of laboratory for first-year students and sophomores and three hours of academics and two hours of laboratory for juniors and seniors. All cadets must participate in two one-hour sessions of physical training. All curriculum is taught on Fridays. AFROTC cadets under scholarship and all juniors and seniors receive a monthly tax-free stipend and a textbook allowance. No military commitment is incurred until entering the last two years of the program (Professional Officer Course) or accepting an AFROTC scholarship.
For more information, contact the Department of Aerospace Studies (AFROTC) at one of the following universities: CSUSB at (909) 537-5195, email afrotc@csusb.edu, or visit the AFROTC at CSUSB; USC at (213) 740-2670, email USC Detachment 060, or visit the AFROTC at USC’s Price School.
Army Reserve Officers Training Corps (AROTC)
The California State University, Fullerton Army ROTC is a program designed to train and develop college students to become motivated U.S. Army leaders. ROTC provides students with the opportunity to gain a college degree while at the same time training to enter the army as a commissioned officer. Cal State Fullerton ROTC offers two-, three- and four-year scholarships for qualified students to help provide financial assistance at Chapman University. For more information about eligibility requirements, scholarship opportunities and the overall program, please contact the Cal State Fullerton ROTC at (657) 278-3527 or email the Department of Military Science, or visit the College of Health and Human Development’s Military Science webpage.
Academic Integrity Policy
Principle
Chapman University is a community of scholars that emphasizes the mutual responsibility of all members to seek knowledge honestly and in good faith. Students are responsible for doing their own work, and academic dishonesty of any kind will be subject to sanction by the instructor/administrator and referral to the University’s Academic Integrity Committee, which may impose additional sanctions up to and including expulsion.
This section of the website represents the Academic Integrity Policy of Chapman University as it pertains to students and to the responsibility of faculty in handling cases of alleged academic dishonesty and cases of dishonest research conduct.
Authority
The Academic Integrity Committee (AIC) is charged by the Faculty Senate under the Faculty Constitution and bylaws to be responsible for defining academic integrity and establishing policies and procedures for investigating, hearing and sanctioning alleged violations of academic integrity. The committee shall also make investigations and determinations of alleged violations of academic integrity policies and invoke the appropriate sanction as stipulated by Chapman University’s policies on academic integrity. The committee includes:

Faculty membership: The committee shall include at least three faculty members from diverse disciplines, one of whom must teach in graduate programs, plus the chair (at least four faculty total). All faculty members serve two-year, staggered terms.
Chair: The chair shall be elected from among the second year/returning faculty members.
Ex-officio members: The Dean of Students or their designee shall serve as an ex-officio, non-voting member.
Student members: One undergraduate student appointed by the Student Government Association and one graduate student appointed by the Graduate Student Council, shall serve on the committee.
Voting privileges: Faculty and student members serve as voting members of the committee.

Academic Integrity Violations
Academic dishonesty can take a number of forms including, but not limited to the following:
Cheating: Using or attempting to use unauthorized assistance, information or study aids in any academic exercise. The behaviors described below are examples that would be categorized as cheating.

Copying answers from or looking at another student’s exam.
Accessing or possessing any material not expressly permitted during an exam, such as crib sheets, notes, books.
Using electronic devices such as cell phones, digital cameras, PDA’s, data storage devices, computers, internet or other electronic devices unless expressly permitted by the instructor for the required coursework.
Continuing to write after a timed exam has ended.
Taking the exam from the room and later claiming the instructor lost it.
Possession of a test prior to exam, date or possession of a similar test (e.g. from a different section of a class or prior year course) that has not been expressly identified by the instructor as permissible to use.
Submission of the same term paper or other work to more than one instructor, where no prior approval has been given.
Submission of purchased term papers or projects done by others.
Submission or searching for a question on an assignment to an external source for assistance in answering.

Fabrication: The falsification or invention of any information or citation in an academic exercise.

Changing answers after an exam has been returned.
Falsifying/omitting data and/or sources, otherwise violating the ethical principles of research.
Falsifying or altering records, related to fieldwork, praxis, clinical hours, patient/client records, or other course-related activities.

Facilitating Academic Dishonesty: Knowingly helping or attempting to help another to violate any provision of this policy.

Allowing another student to copy one’s work.
Having another person take an exam or complete an assignment for oneself.
Taking an exam or completing an assignment for another student.
If you upload your homework/exams/answers to a website, you may be facilitating academic dishonesty. Students should consult with their professor before posting such material online.

Plagiarism: Representing the words, research findings or ideas of another person as your own in any academic exercise. [At their discretion, faculty may submit student work to plagiarism-detection software, such as Turnitin for review without prior notice to students.]

Copying word for word without proper attribution.
Paraphrasing without proper attribution.
Using phrases from another source embedded into original material without proper attribution.
Copying of intellectual property without proper attribution.
Memorizing material from an external source and using it on an assignment or examination as your own work.

Misrepresentation of Academic Records: Misrepresenting, tampering with or attempting to tamper with any university academic document, either before or after coming to Chapman University.

Creating or altering a Chapman University transcript, diploma, verification of enrollment or any other official university document (In this case the student(s) may also face prosecution for violation of Federal and State statutes).
Submitting false records or other documents such as transcripts from another institution.
Failure to report all previous academic work at the time of admission.
Failure to report all academic work attempted at other institutions after admission to the university.
Forgery, alteration or misuse of official academic documents (e.g., petition forms, advising forms, internship forms, etc.).

Other Violations:

Violating professional ethics rules referenced or outlined in the honor codes or student handbooks of graduate or professional programs or colleges.
Violating applicable health, safety or ethical requirements in lab(s) or experiential clinical assignments.
Failing to observe rules of academic integrity established by a faculty member for a particular course.

Academic Integrity in Research
Chapman University students are expected to adhere to standards of ethics and integrity in research and scholarship. Misconduct in research includes fabrication, falsification, plagiarism or other practices that deviate significantly from those that are commonly accepted within the scholarly, creative and scientific community for proposing, conducting or reviewing research or in reporting research results. Key examples of such misconduct are listed below:
Plagiarism:

Taking credit for someone else’s work and ideas, stealing others’ results or methods, copying the writing of others without acknowledgment or otherwise taking credit falsely.
Taking or releasing the data of others which were given in the expectation of confidentiality, e.g., appropriating ideas from submitted grant or contract proposals, or manuscripts for publication when one is a reviewer for granting agencies or journals.

Falsification of Data:

Dishonesty in reporting results, ranging from fabrication of data, improper recording of data, negligence in collecting or analyzing data, to selective reporting or omission of conflicting data.

Dishonesty in Presentation and Publication:

Knowingly presenting material or publishing articles that will mislead listeners or readers, e.g., misrepresenting data (particularly its originality).
Adding the names of other authors without permission or authors who have not earned the credit.
Citing unpublished papers without permission or including inadequate footnote or endnote attributions so that readers cannot tell who produced which data.
Publishing the same material more than once without identification of prior publication.
Serving as a coauthor of a research paper or article without reviewing the material to be published.

Violation of Regulations:

Failure to adhere to safe research practices or to receive the approval required for work under research regulations of federal, state, local or university agencies.
Failure to adhere to Chapman University Institutional Review Board research procedures.
Misuse of research funds.

Unethical Research Practices:

Failing to report episodes of misconduct or breaches of research ethics as set forth in this policy.

Legal Violations:

Stealing or destroying the property of others (research, research papers, supplies, equipment or products).
Misuse of research funds.

Academic Integrity Sanctions
Sanctions are determined by the instructor of record for the course, the supervising faculty member, and/or the AIC. While sanctions generally begin with a less severe action and then progress to more severe actions, the instructor of record, supervising faculty member, and/or the AIC may initiate sanctions in any order, if in their opinion the circumstances so warrant. Nothing in the policy shall be construed to limit the right of the AIC to impose any form of sanction upon a student without a prior violation including suspension or expulsion. Generally, the order of recommended sanctions are as follows:
First violation: When a student has violated the Academic Integrity policy and has no record of a prior violation of the policy at Chapman, the student will be considered as having a first violation. Students with a first violation receive a sanction from the instructor of record for the course or supervising faculty member and a letter from the AIC. A list of typical sanctions is described later in this section. If the recommended sanction by the instructor or faculty member is an “F” grade for the course, the student cannot drop the course and the “F” grade cannot be eliminated by retaking the course. The instructor or faculty member may also prevent a student from withdrawing from the course to avoid a sanction. The AIC may also impose a sanction to a student which may include a warning, a recommendation for suspension or expulsion from the University.
In addition to any of the above sanctions, the student will be assigned an educational module in Canvas to be administered by the AIC. (see below) The module must be completed within 30 calendar days of the student’s receipt of the initial sanction letter from the AIC, or receipt of a letter notifying the student of an unsuccessful appeal of the violation, whichever comes later.
Successful completion of the educational module will be noted by placement of a certificate of completion in the student’s file at the Office of the Provost. Failure to satisfactorily complete the educational module within the allotted timeframe without a compelling excuse will also be noted by a letter of non-completion in the student’s file at the Office of the Provost.
Unintentional plagiarism: In some cases, an instructor may deem that a student has committed plagiarism unintentionally – with no intent to deceive or misrepresent their own work.  This is can happen for students who may not have had an extensive explanation of plagiarism and how to avoid it (e.g. students new to Chapman). In these cases, the instructor may give a student with a first violation of the Academic Integrity Policy a choice between a typical sanction for plagiarism and an alternate sanction that includes referral for one-on-one plagiarism avoidance training through the Dean of Students’ office. If the student completes the one-on-one training program satisfactorily by the assigned deadline, the violation will not be noted in the student’s file. However, the AIC will retain record of the incident, and it will be treated as a first violation if the student commits a second Academic Integrity Policy violation. The student retains the right to appeal the sanction. If the student does not complete the one-on-one plagiarism avoidance training program, then the original sanction will apply.
Second (and subsequent) violations: A student with a prior violation the Academic Integrity policy will be considered as having a second violation. Students with a prior violation will receive a sanction from the instructor of record for the course or supervising faculty member, an AIC sanction appropriate to the nature of the violation, and a letter from the AIC. The AIC sanction may be a warning, a recommendation for suspension or a recommendation for expulsion from the University. Second violations and subsequent violations are noted on the students’ academic record.
Possible Sanctions
The sanction given to a student found to have violated the academic integrity policy is entirely up to the instructor of record or supervising faculty member based on the severity of the violation. The AIC provides a list of typical sanctions for academic integrity violations to help guide instructors and faculty members.



Academic Integrity Violation
Typical Sanction


Unauthorized collaboration on assignment
A failing grade on assignment/exam


Unpremeditated cheating on quiz or exam
A failing grade on assignment/exam


Premediated cheating on quiz or exam
A failing grade on assignment/exam, or failure of course


Facilitation of dishonesty
Documented warning with AIC / grade reduction / failing grade for course


Plagiarism on submitted assignment
A failing grade on assignment/exam


Fabrication of data
A failing grade for the course



Instructors’ and faculty member’s reporting of violations to the AIC is crucial.
In addition, other sanctions may include but not be limited to:

Disciplinary warning.
A make-up assignment that may be more difficult than the original assignment.
No credit for the original assignment/exam.
A failing grade on the assignment/exam.
A reduced final grade for the course.
A failing grade for the course.
Denial of access to internships or research programs.
Referral to Dean of Students for unintentional plagiarism (see below).

Additional Information on Sanctions

If an alleged violation occurs at the Accommodated Testing Center, the AIC will notify the instructor of record for the course and student of the alleged violation, leaving it up to the instructor request a designee hearing, file an Academic Integrity Violation report (AIV Report) and to impose a sanction.
A student cannot withdraw from a course before receiving the violation notification from the AIC. If a student withdraws prior to notification, the AIC may reinstate the student to the course. Withdrawing from a class does not remove the violation report.
After the sanction has been determined, a student may withdraw from the class with the instructor of record’s permission, providing that the alleged violation occurred during the university deadline for course withdrawal, and provided the sanction is not a failure for the course. Withdrawing from a class does not automatically remove the violation report
If an instructor of record assigns a course grade of “F” as the sanction for an academic integrity violation, it cannot be removed from the calculation of the GPA should the course in question be repeated. If the instructor imposes a lesser sanction which results in a course grade of “F”, repeating the course will replace the “F” in the GPA calculation.
Any grade received as a result of a second academic integrity violation cannot be removed from the calculation of the GPA should the course in question be repeated.
For students taking a course P/NP, the instructor may choose to impose the letter grade of an “F” as the sanction for an academic integrity violation.
The AIC sanction letter will be placed in the student’s file in the Office of the Provost along with the faculty/instructor’s report. 
A copy of the letter will also be sent to the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students and the University Registrar.
False statements made during the Academic Integrity hearing or appeal process may result in additional sanction(s) and a referral to the Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean of Students for a Student Conduct Code violation.
Unintentional plagiarism is defined as a situation in which a student has submitted plagiarized work and was unaware or submitted insufficient attribution. In the case of students who commit unintentional plagiarism who may not have had an extensive explanation of plagiarism and how to avoid it (e.g. students new to Chapman), an instructor of record may assign the student with a first violation of the Academic integrity policy a choice between a typical sanction for plagiarism and an alternate sanction that includes a referral to the Dean of Students for additional trainings and educational lessons on plagiarism and how to avoid it. If the student completes this program satisfactorily by the assigned deadline, the violation will not be noted in the student’s file. However, the AIC will retain record of the incident and it will be treated as a first violation in case the student commits a second academic integrity violation. The student retains the right to appeal the sanction. If the student does not complete the training, then the original sanction will apply.

Educational Modules
Two different educational modules are provided for students who have violated the Academic Integrity Policy. Typically, a student will be assigned to only one of these trainings for a given violation.

General Training on Academic Integrity: A required module for any student found responsible for a first violation of the Chapman Academic Integrity Policy. The training is administered through Canvas by the AIC, and it consists of short lessons and exercises on the topic of general academic integrity. 

While the educational module is available to all interested students, each student will have only one opportunity to complete the educational module to receive a certificate of completion in their file at the Office of the Provost.

One-on-one Plagiarism Avoidance Training: In the rare circumstance in which an instructor deems that a student has violated the Academic Integrity Policy as a result of unintentional plagiarism, the student will be referred to the Dean of Students’ office for a series of one-on-one tutoring sessions on what plagiarism is and how to avoid it.

Interim Action

The Provost or their designee involved may suspend the student from one or more classes, experiential clinics or labs for an interim period prior to resolution of the academic integrity proceeding if they believe that the information supporting the allegations of academic misconduct is reliable and determine that the continued presence of the student in classes or experiential assignments poses a significant threat to any person or property.
The Provost or their designee must provide a written notice of the interim suspension to the student, with a copy to the Provost and the Dean of Students Office. The interim suspension will become effective immediately on the date of the written notice.
A student who is suspended for an interim period may request a meeting with the Provost or their designee to review their decision and to respond to the allegations that they pose a threat, by making a written request to the Provost or their designee for a meeting. The Provost or their designee will schedule the meeting no later than five (5) days following receipt of the written request and decide whether the reasons for imposing the interim suspension are supported by the evidence.
The interim suspension will remain in effect until a final decision has been made on the pending academic misconduct charges or until the Provost or their designee, determines that the reasons for imposing the interim suspension no longer exist or are not supported by the available evidence.

Important Guidelines for Faculty

Course outlines should include the academic integrity principle statement and refer students to the catalog and AIC policy for more information.
To encourage compliance with academic integrity standards, instructors and faculty members shall make an effort to explain to students at the outset of a course or the start of an examination the behavior expected of them when taking examinations or when preparing and submitting other course work. Further, instructors and faculty members should actively monitor examinations. Additionally, at the instructor or faculty member’s discretion, they may submit work to plagiarism detection software, such as Turnitin for review without prior notice to students.
In all cases of alleged violations of academic integrity, instructors and faculty members must maintain confidentiality and not disclose information beyond those individuals who have a need to know.
Instructors and faculty members must collect accurate records of an academic integrity violation and submit those records to the AIC chair at the Office of the Provost along with completing an Academic Integrity Violation Report form.
Instructors and faculty members should encourage students who have been accused of an academic integrity violation to contact the Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean of Students or designee, who can serve as a resource.

Procedure for Instructors and Faculty Members Charging a Student with a Violation
When an instructor, faculty member, or member of the Tutoring and Learning Center staff has evidence of an alleged violation of the Academic Integrity Policy, the steps listed below should be followed:
1.  Notify the student by Chapman e-mail (perferred) and/or personal communication of the allegation within 10 calendar days. If course grades have already been submitted already and the sanction impacts the final course grade, instructors/faculty can submit a grade change request to the Registrar’s Office following completion of the academic integrity process. Violations must be reported within 1 month of the deadline for submitting final grades.
2.  The instructor or faculty member should arrange a short meeting with the student to be held as soon as possible, but at least within three (3) business days’ of notice to the student. The instructor/faculty member should also notify the AIC office of the meeting with the student by filing a request for an Academic Integrity Committee Designee form providing at least 48 hours’ notice so an AIC designee can be present during the meeting with the student. Any discussion of sanctions should be reserved for the meeting. Meetings may be arranged for in-person or via Zoom using the instructor/faculty member university account.

If the student fails to attend a scheduled initial meeting with the instructor or faculty member and the AIC designee, without a compelling excuse, the student will lose their opportunity to appeal the violation report and/or sanction to the AIC.
An exception to the requirement for a meeting with the student may occur at the end of a semester when a student is no longer accessible to meet with the instructor/faculty member. In these cases, the instructor/faculty member should make every reasonable effort to contact the student by Chapman e-mail to discuss the matter. If reasonable attempts to contact the student fail, the instructor may resolve the issue by submitting an academic integrity violation report form, which the student has the right to later appeal to the AIC.
Both the instructor/faculty member and student may invite witnesses with first-hand information to the meeting who can knowledgeably provide relevant information about the alleged infraction.

3.  A faculty member designee of the AIC will be present as an observer of the meeting scheduled by the course instructor or faculty member. A request for a designee must be made at least 48 hours (2 business days) before the scheduled meeting time. Instructors and faculty members make the request by completing the Academic Integrity Committee Designee online request form available on the academic integrity website. The AIC designee will:

Ensure that the student knows where to find the Academic Integrity Policy and direct the student to the catalog/website.
Inform the student that they have the right to appeal the violation report and/or sanction to the AIC based on the guidelines provided in the catalog for appealing a violation report and/or sanction to the AIC.
Advise the instructor/faculty member to submit the report of academic integrity violation, no later than 14 calendar days after the meeting.
Observe, but not participate in deciding whether a violation has occurred or which sanction should be imposed.

4.  Instructors and faculty members should  familiarize themselves with the guidelines for sanctions to determine an appropriate sanction for the type of violation

A list of common instructor-imposed sanctions for various violations of academic integrity can be found in the academic integrity sanctions area and on the Academic Integrity Violation Report form.
Instructors and faculty members are encouraged to use these guidelines to ensure consistency and fairness in assessing student sanctions.

5.  During  the meeting with the student, the instructor/faculty member should present the student with the allegation and all evidence in support of the violation. The student should be given the opportunity to respond and, if they wish, to submit evidence refuting the allegation.
6.  At the conclusion of the meeting, the instructor/faculty member determines if it is more likely than not that the student has violated the Academic Integrity Policy, and if so, the instructor/faculty member will file an Academic Integrity Violation Report for the violation.

If the student is found to have violated the policy, the instructor/faculty member will impose a suitable sanction. Examples of violations and common sanctions can be found above in this policy. The instructor or faculty member should inform the student that they will receive a sanction letter from the AIC.
If an instructor or faculty member needs more time to decide on the case or needs to give the student a reasonable timeframe for a response, the instructor/faculty member must make a request to the AIC Chair for additional time. If additional time is granted, a grade of Incomplete may be assigned by the instructor/faculty member if academic integrity is in question at the time grades are due and the instructor or AIC require more time to resolve the issue. (See Academic Policies and Procedures in the catalog for more details on “Incomplete Grades.”)

7.  Once the meeting has taken place and the instructor of record or faculty member has determined a violation has occurred and determined a sanction, the student  should be notified of the sanction in writing by university email and the faculty/instructor should complete the academic integrity violation report form which can be found on the academic integrity website and submit the form to the AIC via email (aic@chapman.edu).
8.  The instructor of record or faculty member must complete the academic integrity violation report form and include all other pertinent documents for the AIC as soon as possible, but not later than 14 calendar days after the meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances and an extension has been granted by the AIC chair. The AIC, at the discretion of the AIC chair, also reserves the right to accept academic integrity violation reports when the student was unable to meet with the instructor/faculty member directly due to exceptional circumstances.
9.  The AIV report/documents can be submitted by the instructor or faculty member directly to the AIC chair in the Office of the Provost or be sent by email to aic@chapman.edu. In most cases, submission of this form and documents will complete the academic integrity violation process for the instructor/faculty member.
10. Upon receipt of the completed Academic Integrity Violation Report by the AIC, the student will receive a letter via email of sanction from the AIC chair along with information for appealing the violation report and/or sanctions.
Important Guidelines for Students

Students should strictly avoid any appearance of academic dishonesty. This includes but is not limited to: joking to others about cheating, permitting others to cheat off them, talking during examinations, plagiarizing, fabrication or falsification of information or forging documents. Students should keep their eyes on their own exams during examinations and protect their exams from the view of others.
Students should be aware and adhere to instructor guidelines for projects, papers and exam situations including use of appropriate citations. This includes the extent of independent and collaborative work allowed for an assignment. All electronic devices (cellular phones, tablets and computers) should be turned off and placed completely out of site during test situations, unless otherwise directed by the instructor.
Academic dishonesty can take a number of forms. Please see the academic integrity violations area for a list of examples.
Students who discover an apparent violation of this policy should report the matter to the instructor of record or supervising faculty member, or if the instructor is not known or unavailable, to the Vice President of Student Affairs/Dean of Students.

Appealing to the Academic Integrity Committee
If the student accepts responsibility for a first violation and the imposed sanction, then the matter is immediately resolved. If the allegation or violation represents a second violation of the Academic Integrity Policy, the AIC will review the case regardless of whether the student decides to appeal the violation report and/or sanction. The review by the AIC and the determination by the AIC of additional sanctions for a student with more than one violation will typically take place either after the window for the student to appeal the second violation has closed or after the appeal process has ended for the second violation. The student retains the right to appeal any additional sanctions imposed by the AIC.
1.  Any student who has received an AIC sanction letter is encouraged to schedule a meeting with the Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean of Students or designee to discuss the situation prior to appealing the case.
2.  If the student disagrees with the violation report, the sanction, and/or the prohibition to withdraw, the student can appeal to the AIC by writing an appeal letter/email addressed to the AIC chair. The appeal letter and any supporting documents can be emailed to aic@chapman.edu.

Appeals must be made within ten (10) Chapman University business days from the date of the sanction letter.
In exceptional circumstances, a student may request additional time to appeal the violation report and/or sanction by emailing aic@chapman.edu, addressed to the AIC chair. Extensions are granted at the sole non-appealable discretion of the AIC chair.
Requests for extensions must be made within ten (10) business days of the date of the sanction letter/email.

3.  Appeals are not granted automatically as they must be thoughtful, well-reasoned, substantive and must demonstrate that at least one of the following criteria exists:

New evidence not available at the time of the meeting with the instructor/faculty member has become available and is potentially sufficient to alter the instructor/faculty member decision.
There was a substantive procedural error made in charging the student
The sanction(s) imposed was not appropriate for the violation of Academic Integrity that occurred.
The facts in the case were insufficient to establish that a violation of the policy occurred.

Appeals must also include pertinent evidence supporting one of the above criteria and names of witnesses, if any, the student will call. Witnesses must have first-hand information about the matter. New evidence will not be accepted at the hearing unless it can be demonstrated that it could not have been known or available to the student at the time of the appeal. Evidence submitted will be reviewed by the AIC chair and may be denied if cumulative or not probative of the disputed facts or to the determination of the case.
4.  The AIC chair will notify the student via Chapman e-mail whether or not the AIC has determined that there are grounds to conduct an appeal hearing. Should the AIC determine there are grounds to conduct an appeal hearing, the AIC will notify the student of the hearing and where it will be held at least five (5) Chapman University business days in advance of the scheduled hearing date.
5.  If the AIC decides to hear the student’s case, the following individuals will be invited to participate:

The AIC chair and the AIC faculty members.
The student representatives on the AIC.
The Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean of Students or their designee (ex-officio, non-voting).
The student.
Any other persons called by the AIC chair, including material witnesses (such as the instructor or record for the course or supervising faculty member) whom the student or the AIC members deem relevant to the case.
The student may also invite one person to provide support (e.g., friend or family member). This support person may not speak for the student and this individual may not be an (practicing or non-practicing) attorney.
A quorum is necessary for all AIC business. A quorum is defined as three (3) voting members of the AIC.

6.  Should the student fail to appear at the hearing before the AIC, the AIC shall have full authority to proceed in the student’s absence. Any student that misses the scheduled hearing with the AIC forfeits the right to appeal the AIC’s decision to the Office of the Provost.

If for any reason, the student needs to reschedule the hearing with the AIC, the committee needs to receive a 24 hours’ notice. Hearings will be rescheduled only for exceptional circumstances at the sole non-appealable discretion of the AIC chair.

7. At the start of the hearing, the student will be invited to present a synopsis their case. The student has the right to present relevant evidence supporting their claims provided the evidence has been  provided to the AIC with their letter of appeal. The student should be brief, concise, and organized in presenting their case.

The AIC chair may conclude the hearing at any time should the committee feel that the student is straying from the relevant facts of the case or reasons for the violation report and/or sanction to be vacated.
Although the committee may ask the student to review briefly the events of the case, the student comments should focus primarily on specific reasons the violation report and/or sanction meet one of the above specified grounds for appeal.
AIC members may ask the student questions about the case for clarification.
The student and witnesses are expected to maintain proper decorum during the proceeding or risk being excused. If a student is excused, the hearing will continue in their absence.

8. After the student has presented the case and all questions have been addressed, the student and instructor or record or faculty member, if present, will be excused and the AIC will deliberate. Deliberation may result in the following:

A decision to uphold, modify or overturn the initial sanction. The AIC reserves the right to modify or overturn the instructor’s sanction.
A determination that additional information is needed. In this case, the decision is suspended until all necessary information has been obtained. In this case, the student will be notified as soon as possible, but within a few days, after the meeting.

9.  After the AIC makes its decision, the chair will notify the student in writing and via Chapman e-mail. Decisions of the AIC are based on the standard of proof whether it is more likely than not that the student violated the Academic Integrity Policy of Chapman University.
Appealing to the Provost
If unsatisfied with the outcome of the AIC hearing to contest the violation report and/or sanction, the student may appeal the decision of the AIC to the Provost by emailing aic@chapman.edu within five (5) Chapman University business days of receiving the AIC decision letter. This period is known as “the appeal period.” A review will be conducted by the Provost or their designee.
In exceptional circumstances, a student may file a request to the Provost for an extension to the appeal period by emailing aic@chapman.edu. Requests for extensions must be made within the appeal period.
Appeals are not granted automatically as they must be thoughtful, well-reasoned and substantive and must demonstrate that at least one of the following criteria exists:

New evidence not available at the time of the hearing has become available and is potentially sufficient to alter a decision.
There was a substantive procedural error that may have prohibited the hearing from being conducted fairly in light of the violation report and/or sanction.
The sanction(s) imposed was not appropriate for the violation of Academic Integrity that occurred.
The facts in the case were insufficient to establish that a violation of the policy occurred.

Upon appeal, the Provost or their designee shall review the faculty member’s decision, sanctions and supporting evidence, and any evidence provided by the student, and may confer with the faculty member and the student. The Provost or their designee shall have the authority to uphold, modify, or overturn the AIC’s decision and sanctions.
The Provost or their designee shall notify the student, the faculty member and the Dean of Students in writing of their decision. The Provost or their designee’s decision is final on all Academic Integrity Policy violation cases. No further review or consideration will be granted following this decision.
 


 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 









   

All catalogs © 2023 Chapman University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).









