


General Information - Chapman University - Acalog ACMS™












Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality.






















Skip to Content






















Jump to the main content of this page

             
        


                Some of the content on this website requires JavaScript to be enabled in your web browser to function as intended. This includes, but is not limited to: navigation, video, image galleries, etc. While the website is still usable without JavaScript, it should be enabled to enjoy the full interactive experience.
            












Find information for



Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families





Degrees & Programs


Map & Directories



Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories





News


Events


Social




 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        



Social hub









Search From



All


Blog Stories


Faculty Directory


Events


Main Website






                                             
                                        


                                                 
                                            








                             
                        



                                     
                                

Academics









About



About Overview


Maps and Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts and Rankings


Leadership


Connect





Academics



Academics Overview


Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study





Admission



Admission Overview


Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours





Alumni



Alumni Overview


Events


Get Involved


Career Support





Arts


Campus Life



Campus Life Overview


Athletics


Diversity and Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health and Safety


Residence Life


Student Life





Research



Research Overview


Sponsored Projects Services


Research Integrity


Institutes and Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support





Support



Support Chapman Overview


Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement










﻿

                                        Find
                                    



                                        Log in
                                    



Blackboard


My Chapman


Staff & Faculty Email


PantherMail


My Window








                                 
                            


                                     
                                




                         
                    





 Academics Logo ﻿



 Chapman University Logo ﻿






Academics Main Menu >



Degrees & Programs


Academic Calendar


Academic Integrity ﻿


Academic Integrity Violations


Academic Integrity Sanctions


Information for Faculty


Information for Students




Aims of Education


Catalogs


GE Program ﻿


Planning Your First Year GE Courses


First-year Foundation Courses


Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster


Shared Inquiry Courses


Global Citizen Cluster




Learning At Chapman ﻿


Program Review


Assessment


General Education Outcomes


Experiential Learning




Libraries


Schools and Colleges


Summer Session ﻿


How to Register


Summer FAQs


Who Should Enroll




University Honors Program ﻿


Prospective Students


Admitted Student Information 2018-2019


Current Students


Honors Courses


Activities and Events


The Honors Legacy


Academic Forms and Resources


Probation and Dismissal


Contact Us




War and Peace





Main Menu < Academics Menu



About




Maps & Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts & Rankings


Leadership


Connect




Academics




Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study




Admission




Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours




Alumni




Events


Get Involved


Career Support




Arts


Campus Life




Athletics


Diversity & Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health & Safety


Residence Life


Student Life




Research




Pre-Award Administration


Post-Award Administration


Research Integrity


Institutes & Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support




Support




Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement







Find information for…




Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families




Degrees & Programs


Maps & Directories




Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories




News


Events


Social








                         
                    










 






                                        Connect
                                    



News and Stories


Press Room


Events


Directory


Campus Visit







                                        Resources
                                    



A-Z Listing


Consumer Disclosures


Employment


Maps and Directions


Tuition and Aid


Privacy









                                        Services
                                    



Libraries


Disability Services


Title IX


Emergency Information


Report an Accessibility Concern







                                        Social
                                    


 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    



 





                                    65° F


                                    18° C





                                Main Campus
                            

One University Drive
Orange, CA 92866


                                (714) 997-6815
                            



                                Rinker Health Science Campus
                            

9401 Jeronimo Road
Irvine, CA 92618



                            © 2015 Chapman University
                        



Save





                /_featured/Default.xml
            

                Default
            

                Default
            

                Do Not Show
            

                Do Not Show
            






   
	Chapman University



   




 

 
				May 27, 2023			

 




2022-2023 Graduate Catalog 







Select a Catalog
 2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog
2022-2023 Graduate Catalog
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]



  
																		
																		 
															

















Global Search








Catalog Search 

Choose Search Location



Select an option
Courses
Degrees
Hierarchy Items
Other Content
Entire Catalog









Search Keyword Field




Whole Word/Phrase




					Advanced Search				














Catalog Navigation




  Catalog Home
  Message from the President 
  Non-Discrimination Policy and Annual Security Report 
  Academic Calendar 
  General Information 
  Graduate Admission 
  Expenses and Financial Aid 
  Academic Policies and Procedures 
 
  The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics 
  Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies 
  Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences 
  Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Conservatory of Motion Pictures 
  Dale E. Fowler School of Law 
  Schmid College of Science and Technology 
  Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences 
  School of Communication 
  College of Performing Arts 
  School of Pharmacy 
 
  Graduate Degrees by School/College 
  Graduate Degree Programs 
  Course Offerings 
 
  University Leadership and Faculty Listing 
  Graduate Degree Program Advisors 




















HELP
2022-2023 Graduate Catalog 
							  General Information							  
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)  













Highlights
Endowed Chairs
Endowed Professorships
Student Affairs Policies


 




Chapman University, founded in 1861, is an independent, comprehensive mid-sized private institution dedicated to providing a solid foundation of knowledge that enables its graduates to become fully educated persons. The University comprises the George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics; Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies; Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts; Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences; Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences; Dale E. Fowler School of Law; Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering; School of Communication; College of Performing Arts; School of Pharmacy and Schmid College of Science and Technology.
Chapman is recognized for its blend of professional programs, sciences, and liberal arts, as well as its distinguished faculty, innovative programs, and personalized attention to students. The University strives to develop in students the ability to think clearly, communicate effectively, explore issues from contrasting points of view, value human and cultural diversity, and make informed ethical judgments in an increasingly complex world.
Highlights
Vision Statement
Chapman University will be a student-centered institution, recognized nationally and internationally as a center of academic and personal excellence that prepares our students to contribute to a global society.
Mission
The mission of Chapman University is to provide personalized education of distinction that leads to inquiring, ethical and productive lives as global citizens.
Central Commitments
The mission of Chapman University finds expression through the following central commitments:

Create stimulating learning environments for a diverse population.
Recruit and retain an outstanding faculty that cherishes teaching, research and creative activity as primary professional commitments and that strives to build a creative intellectual community in which the inquiring life is exemplified by a shared commitment among students and faculty to the pursuit of knowledge.
Offer curricula that integrate liberal arts and professional learning in order to foster independent and critical thinking, effective communication and an international perspective.
Create learning, living and working environments that foster diversity, multiple perspectives, and the free exchange of ideas.
Affirm our openness to diverse religious, spiritual, political, and ethical traditions.
Encourage the linkage between a life of learning and service and vital interaction of the University with our wider communities.
Devote resources in a fiscally responsible manner to support outstanding teaching, scholarship and learning and develop facilities that enhance the living and learning environments.

History
In the late 1840s, a group that would come to be known as the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) headed for California, spurred by visions of gold. That dream died, but by the 1860s members had settled in Woodland, where they built a school, Hesperian College, which opened its doors on March 4,1861. The date is notable: They timed the opening to coincide with the Inauguration of Abraham Lincoln as the 16th U.S. President. The school welcomed women as well as men and students of all races - a radical concept for that day. No one could have known it at the time, but the seeds of Hesperian would eventually grow to become Chapman University.
After many years and ambitious initiatives, in 1919 a prominent orange grower and trusted Disciples leader, Charles C. Chapman, challenged Disciples members to match his gift of $400,000 toward establishing a college in Los Angeles. That challenge was met, and land was purchased on Vermont Avenue, where a college soon grew. In 1934, to honor C.C. Chapman’s legacy, the college was renamed Chapman College. Many more challenges have been faced in the decades that have followed, including Chapman’s 1954 move from Los Angeles to a new campus in Orange. But even as Chapman College became Chapman University, the founders’ commitment to inclusion and civil discourse that bridges divides not only has endured, but it has expanded and been embraced by new generations of Chapman Family members.
Accreditation
Chapman University is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, Senior College and University Commission (1001 marina Village Parkway, Suite 402, Alameda, CA 94501, (510) 748-9001). Chapman University is also proud to have many of its programs nationally accredited through the following accreditors:

Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education
Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant
American Bar Association
American Chemical Society
American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education
Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education
Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association
Council for the Accreditation of Education Preparation 
International School Psychology Association
National Association of School Psychologists
National Association of Schools of Music
National Association of Schools of Dance
National Association of Schools of Theatre

Memberships
Chapman University is a member of the Independent Colleges of Southern California, the Association of American Colleges and Universities, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the College Entrance Examination Board, the Western College Association, the Association of Independent California Colleges and Universities, the American Council on Education, the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, the Division of Higher Education of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), the Council of Graduate Schools, and the Western Association of Graduate Schools. The Fowler School of Law is a member of the Association of American Law Schools (AALS).
Reputation
Chapman University is California’s third-largest private university and is highly competitive in national rankings.

Chapman University is among the top universities in the nation, according to rankings from U.S. News & World Report. In 2019, Chapman was designated a top-tier institution - an indication of the university’s rising reputation, world-class faculty, and growing research programs.
Chapman is categorized by the Carnegie Classification as an R2 “high research activity” institution and it consistently ranks as a top producer of Fulbright Scholars.
In student selectivity, Chapman has ranked first or second in U.S. News for the past decade, a direct tribute to the quality of our students.
The university has also earned accolades from U.S. News & World Report for excellence in undergraduate teaching. In addition, The Princeton Review calls Chapman an “extraordinary blend of liberal arts, science and professional programs,” as well as one of the nation’s best institutions for undergraduate education. 
Since 1993, Chapman has established more than 50 endowed chairs and professorships and has received grants from the nation’s most prestigious foundations.
The media recognize Chapman’s value as well: The Orange County Register called Chapman “one of the hottest private schools in California,” The Washington Post lists Chapman as a “hidden gem” among U.S. universities, and Kiplinger’s names Chapman as among the best values in higher education.

Values and Ethics
One of the most distinguishing aspects of a Chapman education is the ethical emphasis that underscores all academic and student life programs. Students are challenged to think, examine their values, and prepare for their future considering how the world might be a better place and how they might contribute to the world.
For inquiry and the opportunity to learn more about Chapman’s vision of personalized education, contact the Office of Admission noted below or explore Chapman University’s website at www.chapman.edu.
Diversity on Campus
Chapman supports diversity on campus through programs, initiatives, services, and committees coordinated by the Cross-Cultural Center, Civic Engagement Initiatives, Disability Services, the Interfaith Center, the Promising Futures Program, Residence Life and First Year Experience, the Argyros Forum Student Union, the University Program Board, student organizations, academic departments and more. During the academic year, there are a wide range of opportunities to engage in cross-cultural dialogue, experiences, and opportunities that foster a sense of identity, empathy, and community. The programs and services offered support students and seek to increase understanding and appreciation of diversity on campus and within the surrounding community. Student advocacy for diversity on campus is directed through the Student Government Association and Graduate Student Association. Faculty diversity efforts are channeled through the Faculty Senate. The Office of Diversity and Inclusion endeavors to bring students, staff, faculty administrators, and trustees together for meaningful dialogue focused on developing strategic priorities and recommendations for diversity and inclusion at Chapman. You can review Chapman University’s statement on Diversity and Inclusion on the Diversity at Chapman webpage www.chapman.edu/diversity.
Graduate Education
Chapman’s graduate curricula are designed to provide advanced study in specific disciplines to broaden and deepen knowledge of the subject studied. In addition, graduate degrees give the students practical training and skills for advancement in selected professional careers.
Small classes and close personal supervision by the faculty are hallmarks of Chapman. Graduate students are expected to show persistence, maturity, the capacity for growth, and an interest far beyond the attainment of the minimum requirements for degrees.
Faculty
The more than 562 full-time (555 instructional, 7 research) and 644 part-time faculty represent an outstanding range of intellectual interests, research endeavors, and creative activities. They include noted researchers in the sciences and social sciences, gifted artists, prolific writers, talented filmmakers, and widely published and recognized scholars.
As a community, the faculty is comprised of people who connect active scholarship and creative activity with teaching and learning as a bridge between research and practice. Their research and creative work inform both their teaching and their lives in ways that enable students to see the value of a commitment to lifelong learning. Some 87 percent hold terminal degrees and 44 percent are tenured. Full-time faculty teach two to three courses a term.
Center for Global Education
Travel Courses
Chapman faculty representing a wide range of academic departments lead travel courses during the January interterm or summer session(s). Courses range from one to four weeks and may travel domestically or internationally. All students are encouraged to participate in these courses in order to gain a perspective about other countries and cultures. Credit is awarded for the academic work involved in the course. Students may be eligible for a tuition waiver for their participation in a travel program. For more information, contact the Center for Global Education webpage at www.chapman.edu/cge or via email at globaled@chapman.edu.
Enrollment
The 2021-2022 student body population was 9991, 2277 of whom were graduate students. Chapman welcomes students from around the country and the world. Over 80 countries are represented among Chapman’s international student body. Enrollment has steadily grown since the early 1990s. Chapman upholds its tradition of providing personalized education to students by maintaining a faculty to student ratio of 12:1.
Calendar
Chapman has multiple academic calendars. The Orange campus, non-law programs follow a 4-1-4 academic year calendar. The Rinker Health Science campus has three terms (fall, spring, summer) per year. The Fowler School of Law has its own semester-based calendar.
See Academic Calendar .
Career and Professional Development - Services
Chapman University is every Panther’s ‘Career Connection For Life’. The University is committed to providing Panthers with the tools, resources, and networking opportunities to help them find success and fulfillment in their professional endeavors.
All students and alumni from every school and college at Chapman University have access to comprehensive, personalized career support, including university-wide career services with the Office of Career and Professional Development and program-specific support with college career staff and/or centers.
Services and events include personalized career coaching appointments, group workshops, career fairs, employer excursions, industry and alumni panels, company information sessions, interviews, and networking events. Topics range from career exploration to resumes, cover letters, job search, career exploration, interviewing, skill development, networking and more.
View resources, search for jobs and internships, register for events and schedule career appointments by logging into Chapman’s Career Portal, Handshake, at www.chapman.joinhandshake.com.
Learn more about career services at Chapman University at www.chapman.edu/career.
Disability Services
Chapman University is committed to making its educational opportunities accessible to qualified individuals with disabilities in accordance with applicable state and federal laws. By providing access to qualified students with disabilities, the University demonstrates its belief that the community will benefit from their skills and talents. In this regard, Chapman University has implemented the following policies:

Chapman University strictly prohibits any form of discrimination on the basis of an individual’s disability.
Chapman University offers reasonable accommodations to otherwise qualified individuals.

The Director of Disability Services administers these policies. Summaries and references to these policies are provided in the University’s application and admissions materials and its student handbook. Individuals can also obtain information about these policies, services, documentation requirements, etc. from Disability Services via email at DS@chapman.edu.
Disability Services serves as the clearinghouse for all requested accommodations. It is the responsibility of the student requesting accommodations to make these needs known in a timely fashion and to provide proper documentation and medical evaluations as required (www.chapman.edu/disabilities). It is recommended that the student provide these materials prior to the beginning of the academic year or term so that the University may better serve the student’s needs and the student may avoid any irreversible academic consequences. Once notification has been made the University will engage in an interactive process in order to identify our obligation to provide reasonable accommodations. Services provided will be based on the individual needs of the student and may include extended test time, notetakers, etc. The granting of any accommodation will not be retroactive and cannot jeopardize the academic standards or integrity of the course.
Student Psychological Counseling Services
Confidential psychological counseling services are provided to students on an as-available basis. Limited psychiatric evaluations are available to students in therapy at Student Psychological Counseling Services (SPCS) as appropriate. Referrals to other off-campus psychiatrists and therapists are available for all students. Graduate students must opt to pay a health and counseling fee at the time of registration. For more information, visit the SPCS webpage at www.chapman.edu/spcs or email at spcs@chapman.edu
Student Health Services
Physical well-being has a tremendous impact on academic performance. The goal of medical services is to provide the opportunity for academic success, while the focus is to provide students with easy access to health care and disease prevention.
Chapman University Student Health (CUSH) is staffed with nurse practitioners, nurses, and physicians to promote good health and to assess and treat a variety of physical ailments that typically affect college-age students. Services include first aid treatment and triage, primary medicine, gynecological services, immunizations, and health screening. Some medications are provided for a modest fee and some prescriptions are called into the students’ pharmacy of choice. When a student’s condition is beyond the scope of CUSH, the student may be referred off-campus for health care to a physician or clinic in the community.
The CUSH is located at 402 North Glassell Street (corner of Glassell and Sycamore), Orange, CA 92866. The phone number for the health center is (714) 997-6851. Graduate students must opt to pay a health and counseling fee at the time of registration to use CUSH. For more information, visit the CUSH webpage at www.chapman.edu/cush.
Library Services
The Leatherby Libraries, located on the Orange Campus, opened in the Fall term of 2004. The five-story facility serves as an intellectual and cultural heart of the campus and is designed to meet the information needs of Chapman’s students, faculty, and staff.
Our innovative libraries combine the latest information technology with the personalized attention that is the hallmark of a Chapman education. It includes nine individually named libraries with distinctive collections representing the University’s disciplinary areas: arts and humanities, social sciences, science and technology, education, music, film television and media arts, and business and economics. In addition, two special libraries are located on the 4th floor. They are named the Frank Mt. Pleasant Library of Special Collections and Archives and the Sala and Aron Samueli Holocaust Memorial Library. Two additional primary archives collections are located on the lower level of the library. They include the Center for American War Letters Archives and California’s Gold Exhibit, and Huell Howser Archives.
The facility features fifteen group study rooms, six multi-media preview rooms, one multi-station music listening area, 208 computers for user access, wireless Internet access available throughout the building, five computer classrooms, a dedicated library instruction room, an extended-hour study commons, and more than 860 seats at tables, carrels, and lounge chairs.
The Leatherby Libraries’ collection contains approximately 413,000 titles including DVDs, videos, CDs and other media; 68 print journal titles; access to over 104,000 full-text electronic journals; 264 online databases; and 180,000 electronic books that support the research and curricular needs of the campus community.
Interlibrary loan services are available to support the research needs of students and faculty by obtaining books and articles not held at Leatherby Libraries. Requests for materials from other libraries are easily submitted through an online system that allows individuals to set up personalized accounts, submit requests, and track outstanding requests.
The library information literacy and instruction program is an important part of graduate and undergraduate programs. It ensures, that students are connected to the information resources they need to succeed in their courses and become life-long learners.
Additionally, the library offers a range of lectures, exhibitions, permanent art, and curriculum-related displays throughout the year. Here is a list of graduate student services and resources, as well as doctoral and graduate student circuation policies. For more information, visit the Leatherby Libraries webpage at www.chapman.edu/library.
Health Sciences Study Commons
The Health Sciences Study Commons, located at the Harry and Diane Rinker Health Science Campus, provides a flexible and technology-enabled study space for the Chapman University students, faculty, and staff.
Open 24/7, the facility provides library services to the Rinker Health Science Campus and accommodates those looking for collaborative and individual study spaces that are available to facilitate coursework, studying, and research. The Health Sciences Study Commons features twelve group study rooms, twenty individual study carrels, a quiet study area, a computer lab, wireless internet access, and 175 seats at tables, carrels, and lounge chairs.
The Health Sciences Study Commons offers two collections of library materials that focus on the research and curricular needs of the Rinker campus students and faculty. The core research and reference collection consists of books that must be used within the Study Commons. All other materials are part of the circulating collection that may be checked out by Rinker Campus faculty, staff, and students, at the library reference desk. Research, reference, and instruction support is also provided by the Health Sciences Librarians located within the Study Commons. Chapman students, faculty, and staff at the Rinker campus also have access to over 85,000 full-text electronic journals, 307 online databases, and 18,000 electronic books available through the Leatherby Libraries. Interlibrary loan services are available to support the research needs of students and faculty by obtaining books and articles not held in the Health Sciences Study Commons. Students and faculty may also request any of the 413,000 titles including DVDs, videos, CDs, and other media available at the Leatherby Libraries through our interlibrary loan service.
Hugh and Hazel Darling Law Library
The Hugh and Hazel Darling Law Library is located in Kennedy Hall at the Chapman University Dale E. Fowler School of Law. It is an integral part of the Fowler School of Law, supporting faculty research, scholarship, and teaching, and helping students to become proficient legal researchers.
Dedicated in honor of Hugh and Hazel Darling in 2016, the Darling Law Library occupies one full wing of Kennedy Hall. Throughout the Darling Law Library is a mix of study tables and chairs, carrels, and soft seating areas conducive to quiet study and research. The facility features 11 group study rooms for use by Fowler School of Law students. A Current Awareness Room, located on the Law Library’s second floor, features popular legal and news periodicals.
The Darling Law Library’s collection contains thousands of volumes and volume equivalents, and numerous databases facilitating access to more than 3 million electronic resources. Among its materials are federal and state primary authority, legal treatises, practitioner guides, legal encyclopedias, periodicals, study aids, a DVD collection of films and documentaries about the law or featuring legal themes, and more.
Chapman University faculty, staff, and students may check out circulating materials at the Darling Law Library’s Circulation Service desk, or confer with a Research/Instruction Librarian about legal research strategies and resources at its Research Desk.
Within the Darling Law Library are four computers for conducting legal research. A scanner, a microfiche/microfilm reader, two copy machines, and printing stations also are available. Wireless internet access is available throughout the building.
On display is the latest scholarship by Fowler School of Law faculty, along with a collection of framed Vanity Fair art prints gifted to the Fowler School of Law. A bronze relief of its namesakes, Hugh and Hazel Darling, appears on the Law Library’s first floor. Highlighting recent scholarship by Fowler School of faculty, the Darling Law Library also hosts Book Talks open to the Chapman University community.
The Darling Law Library is open to Chapman University faculty, staff, students, and alumni with Chapman University ID; law students, faculty, and staff from other ABA law schools with both school and government-issued IDs; and attorneys with a current bar card.
Restaurant Services - Graduate Student Dining Options
Chapman University Restaurant Services is more than great food. It is a community centered on culinary expertise, fresh ingredients, healthy options, and a shared sense of environmental and social responsibility. Join us to enjoy the comfort, convenience, outstanding food, and inviting atmosphere designed especially for you.
Orange Campus has a variety of dining options for graduate students. Here, dining halls aren’t just reserved for undergrad or residential students. Located in the Sandhu building, Randall Dining Commons is Chapman University’s nationally recognized all-you-care-to-eat dining facility. Randall is open to the entire campus community and features several food platforms including our seasonally organic and local salad bar, deli, hand-crafted brick oven pizza, made-to-order pasta, delicious Asian cuisine, hand-rolled sushi, open-fire mesquite-grilled items, delightfully refreshing vegan entrées, and our very popular Euro Station serving dishes from regions across the globe.
Those with special diets, lifestyles, and allergies have plenty of options to choose from at Randall Dining Commons. Our Mindful station focuses on big flavor, full plates, and making it an easy choice to enjoy a healthier lifestyle. Simple Servings provides safe and crave-able choices for anyone with food allergies, gluten intolerance, or those who prefer simply prepared meals.
For graduate students looking for a late-night dining option, Doy’s Place, beside Randall Dining Commons, hosts our eatery “Twelve” - and it’s generally open from 8 p.m. -1 a.m., perfect for graduate students taking night classes. Choose from a flavorful menu including pizza and a specially optimized to mix and match proteins, vegetables, grains, and greens station where you can ‘be the chef’. Stocked with fresh coffee, snacks, and cold beverages, Twelve is the perfect place for your study and social sessions. In Argyros Forum, Chapman Restaurant Services offers dining choices to keep you performing your best no matter what your day has ahead. Grab your morning smoothie from Jamba Juice, lunch at Sub-Connection or Qdoba Mexican Grill, and an afternoon pick-me-up at Einstein Brothers Bagels, all located in Argyros Forum.
Starbucks is located Beckman Hall and features delicious, handcrafted beverages and great-tasting food; the secret to making life better! Starbucks roasts high-quality whole bean coffees and fresh, rich brewed Italian-style espresso beverages and a variety of pastries and confections. Starbucks also offers a full line of sandwiches and snacks.
The Rotunda Café is located inside Leatherby Libraries. Enjoy Simply to Go menu items including salads, sushi, sandwiches, yogurt, and fruit cups, made fresh on campus daily. Beverages include Coca-Cola soft drinks, energy drinks, and our fair trade Aspretto coffee and tea.
If you looking to get your creativity flowing at the Digital Media Arts Center, we’ve got you covered! Grab a Simply to Go sandwich or salad or get an energy boost with freshly brewed coffee.
The best way to dine on the Orange Campus is with a meal plan. Choose from several meal plans designed for the busy schedules of residential and commuter students, as well as faculty and staff. Save up to 59 percent off on all Chapman restaurants if you purchase a commuter meal plan! To learn more or to buy now, text CHAPrs to 82257.
On Rinker Health Science Campus, we have ways for you to stay energized and fueled throughout the day and night. We are excited to offer handcrafted beverages to the Micro Market in the 9501 Student Commons, where you can fill up on snacks and satisfying ice-cold beverages.
For hours of operation, text CHAPrs to 82257, please visit the Chapman Dining webpage at  www.chapman.edu/dining or connect with us on social media on our Chapman University Restaurant Services Facebook page at www.facebook.com/chapmanuniversityrestaurantservices or Chapman Chow Instagram account at www.instagram.com/chapmanchow.
Public Safety
The primary role of the Office of Public Safety is to provide a safe working and learning environment for students, faculty, and staff. The office operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and provides a variety of services: safety and emergency preparedness consultation, lost and found, operation safe-ride, property identification, vehicle registration, and bicycle registration. The Office of Public Safety requires that all vehicles and bicycles on campus be registered and all registrations are processed through this office. For more information about parking and registering your vehicle, you can log onto the Parking Services webpage www.chapman.edu/parkingservices. For more information, visit the Office of Public Safety webpage at www.chapman.edu/publicsafety or call (714) 997-6763. The Office of Public Safety on the Orange campus is located at 418 North Glassell and on the Rinker Health Science campus it is located at 9401 Jeronimo Road, room 110.
Operation Safe Ride - Orange Campus
Chapman University Public Safety, in partnership with Associated Students, is pleased to offer Operation Safe Ride. This service is provided to escort students, faculty, staff, and visitors around Chapman University during the hours in which safety is of utmost concern (see hours of operation). Public Safety Officers can also provide an escort anytime outside the operation hours if requested by someone who feels the need for a safe escort. The service is offered free of charge and provides a designated student worker who will pick up a student, faculty member, staff member and/or visitor to the Campus, and deliver that person to their vehicle, room in the residence halls, or location within the designated boundaries. If you need a safe ride, call (714) 997-6680.
Chapman University Campus Stores
Chapman University Bookstore, located in Bhathal Student Services Center on the Orange Campus, is your source for all Chapman University course materials. A large selection of new and used textbooks, rental eligible titles, and digital course materials are available both in store and online. Please see a team member for details pertaining to our refund policy for textbooks. We host a buyback program everyday, but the best offers for books are made during finals week. The Bookstore has a curated selection of apparel and gifts, including merchandise for Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences, Fowler School of Law, and School of Pharmacy. The Bookstore carries an assortment of supplies you need and health & beauty items you want. Quench your thirst with energy drinks and more while satiating your hunger with snack options that include healthy choices and grab and go items.
Agora Gift Shop is located in Argyros Forum on the Orange Campus. All things Chapman is what makes up the gift shop, from fashion-forward to classics, you will find the latest in Chapman apparel, gifts, and supplies. Along with everything you need to show your Chapman spirit, the Gift Shop also carries Apple hardware and products, a selection of school and dorm supplies, health and beauty aids, confections, and more.
Shop 24 hours a day on Chapman University Campus Stores webpage www.chapmanstore.com for the latest in Chapman fashion and gifts, course materials, and more. Chose in-store pick up for free or shipping options are available starting at $6.99. For more information, the Campus Stores and can be reached by phone at (714) 997-6718 or by email at chapman@bkstr.com.
Store Hours
Up to the minute store hours are available on the Campus Store News and Hours webpage at www.bkstr.com/chapmanstore/store-hours.
University Bookstore



Monday - Thursday
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.


Friday
9:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.



Agora Gift Shop



Monday - Thursday
9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.


Friday
9:00 a.m - 4:00 p.m.



Extended hours are offered during back to school, finals, commencement, and special events.
Church Relationship
Chapman’s roots are firmly grounded in its historic covenant with our founders, the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ). That rich spiritual legacy lives on through Chapman’s focus on the development of the ethical, spiritual, and intellectual person. A variety of religious studies courses and spiritual programming activities are offered, but not required. The dean of the chapel oversees an active interfaith program designed to meet the spiritual needs of the University’s students, faculty, and staff. A full-time director of church relations strengthens the University’s covenant with the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) as well as provides programs for the broader community. As of 2010, Chapman University is also recognized by the United Church of Christ as a church-related school. Honoring this connection, there is a special student ministry and scholarship program for students from Disciples and United Church of Christ backgrounds. Both the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and the United Church of Christ respect the many paths to God and strongly support Chapman’s nurturing of students, faculty, and staff of all faith backgrounds, as well as those who are atheist or agnostic. For more information about the Disciples and United Church of Christ program, visit the Office of Church Relations webpage at www.chapman.edu/churchrelations.
Chapman University embraces four pillars of education: intellectual, social, physical, and spiritual. The dean of the chapel supports a host of religious and spiritual groups including progressive and evangelical Protestants, Roman Catholics, Latter-day Saints, Jews, Muslims, Buddhists, Baha’is, Sikhs, Wiccans and those exploring meditation, health and healing and intersections between religion and other intellectual disciplines. New groups may be formed to support the interests and needs of the current student body. Major religious conferences and speakers are hosted each year. For more information, visit the Fish Interfaith Center webpage at www.chapman.edu/FIC.
In addition to the chaplaincy services of the director and associate director of the church relations and the dean of the chapel, there is also a director of Jewish life and a director of Muslim life who serve their unique populations in addition to the entire campus.
The beautiful Fish Interfaith Center houses the Wallace All Faiths Chapel, Wilkinson Founders Chapel, Yoder Sanctuary, Peterson Conference Room, The Fashionables Courtyard, Dee’s Garden of the Senses, a lounge, administrative offices, and a columbarium. A team of internationally known architects and artists cooperated in the design of this inspirational and award-winning sacred space, which opened in 2004.
Campus
Chapman University is located in the heart of Orange County, California, an exciting and ever-changing nexus of technology, business, and the arts. A blend of new, state of the art and historic buildings offers students the latest educational and technological resources. Among recent additions:

The Keck Center for Science and Engineering, opened in the fall of 2018, houses programs in the Schmid College of Science and Technology and the Fowler School of Engineering. At 140,000 square feet, it is the largest and most ambitious building in the University’s history.
The Harry and Diane Rinker Health Science Campus, located in Irvine, houses classrooms and laboratories for graduate students enrolled in the Chapman University School of Pharmacy, doctoral physical therapy program, the master of medical science physician assistant program and other graduate health science programs in the Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences.
Marybelle and Sebastian P. Musco Center for the Arts, is an elegant 1,044 seat high tech professional arts venue that can accommodate full-scale Broadway, opera, ballet, and other touring productions, as well as Chapman student performances.
The Hilbert Museum of California Art, exhibits and celebrates the unique California Scene Painting movement that flourished roughly 1920-1970, depicting important growth and change in the Golden State.
World-renowned ocean beaches are less than 10 miles away, mountains and deserts are within an hour’s drive, and San Diego and Mexico are just 90 miles south.
Just minutes from the university are acclaimed recreation and entertainment venues, including Disneyland, Segerstrom Center for the Arts, the Anaheim Convention Center, Bowers Museum of Cultural Art, Knotts’ Berry Farm, Angel Stadium and the Honda Center.
The major attractions of Los Angeles entertainment and industry are within commuting distance, including the Getty Center, Walt Disney Concert Hall, L.A. County Museum of Art, and the Hollywood Bowl.

Location
The beautiful, tree-lined 90-acre Chapman University main campus in Orange, California is 35 miles southeast of Los Angeles, right in the heart of the exciting cultural and natural attraction attractions of Orange County, which has been rated “the number one place to live in North America” by Places Rated Almanac. World-renowned ocean beaches are less than 10 miles away, mountains and deserts are within an hour’s drive and San Diego and Mexico are just 90 miles south. Just minutes from the University are acclaimed recreation and entertainment venues, including Disneyland, Segerstrom Center for the Arts, the Anaheim Convention Center, Bowers Museum of Cultural Art, Knott’s Berry Farm, Angel Stadium and the Honda Center. The major attractions of Los Angeles, including the Getty Center, Walt Disney Concert Hall, L.A. County Museum of Art, the Hollywood Bowl, and much more are within an hour to 90-minute drive.
Created to meet the demands of tomorrow’s advanced healthcare professionals, the Harry and Diane Rinker Health Science campus is home to Chapman University’s School of Pharmacy and several graduate programs in the Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences. The Rinker Health Science Campus is ideally situated in Irvine, where students can pursue research and internships with renowned pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, and facilities right in their own backyard. The technologically innovative campus promotes inter-professional education and interdisciplinary research among the programs housed at Rinker, through its flexible, shared classroom and research spaces. A place for education, research, and treatment, the Rinker campus boasts the latest high-tech learning and research tools.
Interactive Campus Map
Chapman University is proud to introduce our interactive campus map and webpage www.chapman.edu/about/maps-directions. This comprehensive resource will help get you to Chapman University and guide you around campus once you’re here. Included on the map are University buildings, department and school locations, parking and dining options, emergency locations, and even bathrooms and ATMs. Built around the Google Maps platform, this resource syncs with your phone’s Google Map app for ease of use. We encourage you to use the interactive campus map and webpage www.chapman.edu/about/maps-directions to find the accessibility of campus locations.
Lactation Stations
Chapman University recognizes the importance of helping nursing parents feel welcome on campus and wants to ensure they have the resources they need to balance work, family, and education. The Lactation Stations provide a secure, private, restful, and sanitary environment for breastfeeding or pumping. All Lactation Stations within the University community are equipped with a comfortable chair, table, electrical outlets, and refrigeration. Below you will find information on locations, logistics, and support.
Lactation Stations are as follows:



Building
Address
Room
Location Notes




Wilkinson Hall
One University Drive, Orange, CA 92866
Lower Level
Location on the lower level of the northwest corner of Wilkinson Hall. This is a single occupancy room, which is located in a separate private space within the women’s restroom area. The room does require keycard access but has a lock for privacy, and a sign on the door that indicates when it is occupied.


635 West Palm Building
635 West Palm Avenue, Orange, CA 92866
108
Located on the first floor of the 635 West Palm building. This is a single occupancy room which requires keycard access but has a lock for privacy, and indicates when it is occupied.


Rinker Health Science Campus
9401 Jeronimo Road, Irvine, CA 92618
9401-183
Located on the lower level of the 9401 building of the Rinker Health Science Campus. This is a single occupancy room which requires keycard access but has a lock and indicates when it is occupied.


Dale E. Fowler School of Law
One University Drive, Orange, CA 92866
KH 167
Located on the first floor of the Kennedy Hall building of the Law School. This is a single occupancy room, which requires keycard access but has a lock and indicates when it is occupied.



*Lactation suites are open Monday-Sunday from 7 a.m. - 8 p.m.. Should you require access outside of these hours please contact the below support resources.
LOGISTICS

Reservations are not required for use of University lactation suites.
The rooms are managed by the Office of Human Resources and maintained by Aramark Services.
All rooms are equipped with proper seating, lighting, tables, refrigeration, and the ability to lock doors.
Please bring your own accessories when using the Lactation Stations.

SUPPORT
Support requests for access to the lactation suites should be directed the University’s Wellness and Leaves Administrator or Equal Opportunity and Diversity Officer. They are available to provide any additional information about the locations, amenities, and the protocol for obtaining keycard access to the Palm and Law School Lactation Suites. Reservations are not required for suite usage.



Albert Roberson, LL.M.
Tim Frenchcampbell


Director of Equal Opportunity,                 
Wellness and Leave Administration Specialist                            


Deputy Title IX Coordinator,
 


ADA Section 504 Officer
 


aroberson@chapman.edu
frenchca@chapman.edu


(714) 997-6847
(714) 997-6979



Chapman University is committed to providing an environment that is free of any form of harassment and discrimination based on all classifications protected by law, including pregnancy and pregnancy-related conditions, so that all members of the community are treated at all times with dignity and respect. To report any incidents of harassment or discrimination, please contact:



Colleen Wood, M.S.
Albert Roberson, LL.M.


Lead Title IX Coordinator
Director of Equal Opportunity                                        


Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs
Deputy Title IX Coordinator


and Associate Dean of Students
Office of Human Resources


Argyros Forum - Room 101
DeMille Hall 140


(714) 997-6721
(714) 997-6847


cwood@chapman.edu
aroberson@chapman.edu



Non-Gender-Identified Restrooms
Chapman University is deeply committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and welcoming campus for all students, staff, faculty, and visitors. All individuals have equal opportunity to use the restroom facilities on campus that best correspond to their own gender identity. Those who do not identify with the gender binary may determine whichever facility is the most appropriate and most comfortable for them. No individual is required to provide any documentation of their gender identity in order to access any facility corresponding to their own gender identity.
Chapman University is actively working toward increasing the number of non-gender-identified restroom facilities on campus. View the interactive map of all single-stall and non-gender-identified restrooms on campus at www.chapman.edu/about/maps-directions. For more information read about the University’s Gender-Inclusive Policies at www.chapman.edu/title-ix, the University’s diversity and inclusion efforts at www.chapman.edu/diversity, and the University’s work with Title IX at www.chapman.edu/title-ix.
Campus Life
Learning takes place both within and outside of the classroom. Chapman fosters an environment in which it is expected that students will take responsibility for their learning and living. Through its various offices, the staff provides guidance, support, and opportunities for student growth and development. Chapman believes in creating programs and services tailored to the individual needs of students.
Non-Discrimination Statement
Chapman University is committed to providing an environment which is free of any form of harassment and discrimination based upon an individual’s race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status or any other classification protected by law, so that all members of the community are treated at all times with dignity and respect. Therefore, it is the University’s policy, to prohibit all forms of such harassment or discrimination among University faculty, students, staff, and administration.
Endowed Chairs
Student and faculty research and programmatic opportunities are supported by the following endowments:

A. Gary Anderson Chair in Economic Analysis
George L. Argyros Endowed Chair in Finance and Economics
Bertea Family Chair in Music
Donley and Marjorie Bolinger Chair in Real Estate, Land Use and Environmental Law
Donald Bren Distinguished Presidential Chair in Mathematics
George H.W. Bush Chair in International Business
James H. Cavanaugh Endowed Chair in Presidential Studies
Irvin C. and Edy Chapman Dean of the Wallace All Faiths Chapel Chair
Hugh and Hazel Darling Law Librarian Chair
Delp-Wilkinson Chair in Peace Studies
James L. and Lynne Pierson Doti Chair in Economics
Doti-Spogli Chair in Free Enterprise 
Rebecca and William Dunn Distinguished Chair in Honor of Vernon L. Smith, Ph.D.
Dr. Royal J. and Dr. Eva N. Dye Chair of Religion and Missions
Fletcher Jones Chair in International Business and Economics
William P. Foley, II Chair in Corporate Law and Taxation
Paul Frizler Chair in Communication Studies
Jacqueline M. Glass Chair in Theatre and Music
Jerrold A. Glass Chair in Accounting and Economics
Belle Griset Chair in Religious Studies
Warren D. Hancock Chair in Natural Sciences
Jack H. and Paula Hassinger Chair in Education
Doy and Dee Henley Chair and Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence
Doy B. Henley Chair of American Presidential Studies
C. Larry Hoag Chair in Real Estate
R. C. Hoiles Chair in Business Ethics and Free Enterprise
Donna and David Janes Chair in Experimental Economics
Donald P. Kennedy Endowed Chair in Economics and Law
Donald P. Kennedy Chair in Law
Kloppenburg-Stead Chair in Servant Leadership
Marion Knott Filmmaker-in-Residence Endowed Chair
Ralph W. Leatherby Chair in Entrepreneurship
Robert and Norma Lineberger Endowed Chair in Music
Twyla Reed Martin Dean’s Chair in Film and Media Arts
Sebastian Paul and Marybelle Musco Endowed Chair in Italian Studies
Ronald E. Soderling Chair in Economics and Real Estate Development
Ralph and Sue Stern Chair in Holocaust Education
Robert J. and Carolyn Waltos, Jr. Chair in the Argyros School of Business and Economics
Donald S. and Leonora N. Will Endowed Chair in Peace Studies

Endowed Professorships
Student and faculty research and programmatic opportunities are supported by the following endowments:

Donna Ford Attallah Endowed Professorship in Teacher Education
Donald R. Booth Professorship in Economics in Honor of Larry Parlett and in Memory of Alan Thompson
Burra Professor of Accounting
Irving and Nancy Chase Endowed Professorship in Holocaust and Jewish History
Jim Farley Professorship in Natural Philosophy
Fletcher Jones Foundation Professorship in Computational Physics
Gray Family Professorship in Law
William Hall Visiting Professorship in Music
Gavin Herbert Endowed Professor of Pharmacy
Roger C. Hobbs Endowed Professorship in Urban Studies
Parker S. Kennedy Professorship in Law
John Koshak Visiting Professorship in Music
Lincoln Club Professorship
Hazel Peck Marshall and Dr. Sam Lewis Campbell Professorship in Behavioral Sciences
Martha Masters ‘37 Professorship in Art
Foster G. and Mary McGaw Professorship in Behavioral Sciences
Foster G. and Mary McGaw Professorship in Mathematical Sciences
Ronald D. Rotunda Distinguished Professor in Jurisprudence
Henry Salvatori Professorship of American Values and Traditions
Henry Salvatori Professorship in Law and Community Service
David and Sandra Stone Professorship in Economics
Daniele C. Struppa and Lisa S. Sparks Endowed Professorship in Italian Studies
Henri Temianka Endowed Professorship in Music
Warren and Doris Uehlinger Endowed Professorship in Business Management
Hua-Cheng Wang-Fradkin Professorship in Scholarly Excellence
Leon and Sophie Weinstein Professorship in Holocaust History
Betty L. Hutton Williams Endowed Professorship in International Economic Law
Frank L. Williams, Jr. Endowed Professorship in Criminal Law

Student Affairs Policies
Student Conduct Code
Chapman University expects that all students adhere to the policies that govern student behavior outlined in the Student Conduct Code. The University is specifically concerned when individual student and organizational behavior directly interfere with the University’s primary educational objectives and functions or the rights and safety of others. Chapman believes that the conduct process has a role in developing a sense of responsibility and accountability in students, while being life preparatory. To that end, the University uses education and counseling, in addition to formal conduct proceedings to bring about these outcomes. Every Chapman student is presumed to have sufficient maturity, intelligence, and concern for the rights of others and the rights of the institution to help maintain established standards of the academic community. When a student or organization’s behavior demonstrates otherwise, the University will consider conduct proceedings as deemed necessary. For details regarding institutional policies governing student conduct or the disciplinary process, please visit the Chapman University Student Conduct Code webpage at www.chapman.edu/student-conduct, or the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students webpage at www.chapman.edu/dean-of-students.
Firearms and Fireworks
The possession or use of firearms, fireworks, or other explosives is prohibited on campus and may be grounds for immediate dismissal.
Freedom of Speech and Expression
Freedom of speech and expression are especially important values within an academic community. Thus, with few exceptions, all topics are appropriate for discussion and debate within the framework of academic inquiry, and within the context of the University’s pedagogical interests. appropriate restrictions on time, place, and manner. Students and student organizations are free to examine and discuss all questions of interest to them and to express opinions publicly and privately. Students are free to support causes by orderly means, which do not disrupt the regular and essential operation of the institution. Within these broad parameters, the University may restrict expression that violates the law, is disruptive in the context of time, place or manner, constitutes a genuine threat or harassment against another person or persons, invades privacy or confidentiality interests, is otherwise directly incompatible with the functioning of the University, or interferes with the rights of others to engage in free expression. In their public expressions or demonstrations, students or student organizations speak only for themselves and may not speak on behalf of the institution. For more information on the University’s statement on free speech visit Chapman University Statement on Free Speech at www.chapman.edu/statement-on-free-speech.
Grievance Procedures
Graduate students who have concerns about campus academic policies, procedures, other policies, treatment by faculty or other campus employees or concerns about college operations are encouraged to bring those concerns or complaints to the Vice Provost for Graduate Education.
For academic matters, the process normally begins with the faculty member involved. Appeals typically go to the department chair, the academic dean, the Graduate Academic Council, and then the Vice Provost for Graduate Education (who will act on the matter or refer it to the Provost). For non-academic matters (issues related to departments such as residence life, facilities management, business office, etc.), students should first discuss the matter with the head of the appropriate department with appeals to the appropriate supervisor. Students wishing to discuss or report concerns about harassment should contact the Vice President for Student Affairs.
Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation Prevention
Chapman University is committed to providing an environment which is free from any form of harassment and discrimination based upon an individual’s race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, national origin, ancestry, citizenship status, age, marital status, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, sexual orientation, military or veteran status, genetic information, or any other characteristic protected by applicable state or federal law, so that all members of the community are treated at all times with dignity and respect. The University is also committed to providing an environment that is free of sexual harassment in any form. Therefore, it is the University’s policy, to prohibit all forms of such harassment or discrimination among University faculty, students, staff, and administrators.
Independent contractors and other third parties at the University are also expected to conform their conduct to the University’s Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation Prevention Policy. The University’s ability to take action against third parties may be limited and is determined by their context of the prohibited conduct and the nature of the relationship to the parties and the University.
View the entire copy of Chapman University’s Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation Prevention Policy on the University’s Equal Opportunity Office webpage www.chapman.edu/faculty-staff/human-resources/eodo.
The University’s administrative, faculty, staff, and students are each responsible for creating and maintaining an environment conducive to work, study, and learning and for cooperating with University officials who investigate allegations of policy violations. It is the duty of every member of the faculty, staff, and administrator to assure compliance with the policy by promptly reporting allegations of the policy violations to the University’s Equal Opportunity Office. Students are also strongly encouraged to report any alleged violations of this policy, and may do so by reporting the Director of Equal Opportunity.
In keeping with its policies, Chapman University not only fully complies with all local, state, and federal laws concerning harassment and discrimination, but also provided a means to assure fair treatment to any student, employee or member of the University community who believes the policy prohibiting discrimination, harassment, and retaliation has been violated. For further information, concerning the Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation Prevention Policy, please contact the University’s Director of Equal Opportunity by email at aroberson@chapman.edu or phone at (714) 997-6847.
Hazing and Disruptive Conduct
Hazing or other activities that interfere with the normal operation of the University or infringe on the safety of other members of the University community including obstructing and academic class or lecture, administrative support function, or University event or business is prohibited. Additionally, failure to comply with the requests of University officials may result in a referral to student conduct. For additional information, please see the Student Conduct Code above.
Local, State and Federal Laws
Students attending Chapman University are subject to local, state, and federal laws. When studying outside of the United States the laws of foreign jurisdiction(s). Chapman reserves the right to impose institutional sanctions for violations of public laws, even when such violations occur off University property. Students may also be subject to civil and/or criminal charges for offenses on Chapman property, if such offenses are in violation of local, state or federal laws, in addition to any accountability that they may face under the Student Conduct Code or other University policies.
Rights and Privacy Act/Confidentiality of Educational Records
Chapman’s policy regarding confidentiality is in keeping with the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), which affords students certain rights with respect to their education records, a summary of which follows:

The right to inspect and review the student’s own education records within 45 days of the day Chapman University receives a request for access.
The right to request the amendment of the student’s education records that the student believes are inaccurate.
The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student’s education records.
The right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failure by Chapman University to comply with the requirements of FERPA.

One exception that permits disclosure without consent is disclosure to school officials with legitimate educational interests. A school official is a person employed by Chapman University in an administrative, supervisory, academic, research, or support staff position (including law enforcement personnel and health staff); a person or company with whom Chapman University has contracted to serve as its agent or to provide services in support of its operation (such as an attorney, auditor, collection agent, degree conferral & transcript processing agent, document managing agent, and placement sites for an internship or similar student work/study opportunities); a person serving on the Board of Trustees; a student serving on an official committee, such as a disciplinary or grievance committee, or assisting another school official in performing his or her tasks; consultants, volunteers or other outside parties to whom Chapman University has outsourced institutional services or functions that it would otherwise use employees to perform.  A school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional responsibility.
As allowed within FERPA guidelines, Chapman University may disclose education records without consent to officials of another school, upon request, in which a student seeks or intends to enroll.
At its discretion, Chapman University may provide public directory information in accordance with the provisions of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Directory information is defined as information that would not generally be considered harmful or an invasion of privacy if disclosed. Students may withhold directory information by notifying the University Registrar in writing.
A complete text of Chapman’s annual notification to students of their rights under FERPA is contained on the Office of the University Registrar’s webpage at www.chapman.edu/registrar and www.chapman.edu/ferpa.
Violence
Per the Student Conduct Code, any form of violence is forbidden and may result in immediate suspension from the campus and upon appropriate determination, expulsion from Chapman University.



 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 









   

All catalogs © 2023 Chapman University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).









