


General Information - Chapman University - Acalog ACMS™












Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality.






















Skip to Content






















Jump to the main content of this page

             
        


                Some of the content on this website requires JavaScript to be enabled in your web browser to function as intended. This includes, but is not limited to: navigation, video, image galleries, etc. While the website is still usable without JavaScript, it should be enabled to enjoy the full interactive experience.
            












Find information for



Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families





Degrees & Programs


Map & Directories



Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories





News


Events


Social




 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        



Social hub









Search From



All


Blog Stories


Faculty Directory


Events


Main Website






                                             
                                        


                                                 
                                            








                             
                        



                                     
                                

Academics









About



About Overview


Maps and Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts and Rankings


Leadership


Connect





Academics



Academics Overview


Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study





Admission



Admission Overview


Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours





Alumni



Alumni Overview


Events


Get Involved


Career Support





Arts


Campus Life



Campus Life Overview


Athletics


Diversity and Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health and Safety


Residence Life


Student Life





Research



Research Overview


Sponsored Projects Services


Research Integrity


Institutes and Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support





Support



Support Chapman Overview


Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement










﻿

                                        Find
                                    



                                        Log in
                                    



Blackboard


My Chapman


Staff & Faculty Email


PantherMail


My Window








                                 
                            


                                     
                                




                         
                    





 Academics Logo ﻿



 Chapman University Logo ﻿






Academics Main Menu >



Degrees & Programs


Academic Calendar


Academic Integrity ﻿


Academic Integrity Violations


Academic Integrity Sanctions


Information for Faculty


Information for Students




Aims of Education


Catalogs


GE Program ﻿


Planning Your First Year GE Courses


First-year Foundation Courses


Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster


Shared Inquiry Courses


Global Citizen Cluster




Learning At Chapman ﻿


Program Review


Assessment


General Education Outcomes


Experiential Learning




Libraries


Schools and Colleges


Summer Session ﻿


How to Register


Summer FAQs


Who Should Enroll




University Honors Program ﻿


Prospective Students


Admitted Student Information 2018-2019


Current Students


Honors Courses


Activities and Events


The Honors Legacy


Academic Forms and Resources


Probation and Dismissal


Contact Us




War and Peace





Main Menu < Academics Menu



About




Maps & Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts & Rankings


Leadership


Connect




Academics




Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study




Admission




Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours




Alumni




Events


Get Involved


Career Support




Arts


Campus Life




Athletics


Diversity & Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health & Safety


Residence Life


Student Life




Research




Pre-Award Administration


Post-Award Administration


Research Integrity


Institutes & Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support




Support




Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement







Find information for…




Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families




Degrees & Programs


Maps & Directories




Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories




News


Events


Social








                         
                    










 






                                        Connect
                                    



News and Stories


Press Room


Events


Directory


Campus Visit







                                        Resources
                                    



A-Z Listing


Consumer Disclosures


Employment


Maps and Directions


Tuition and Aid


Privacy









                                        Services
                                    



Libraries


Disability Services


Title IX


Emergency Information


Report an Accessibility Concern







                                        Social
                                    


 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    



 





                                    65° F


                                    18° C





                                Main Campus
                            

One University Drive
Orange, CA 92866


                                (714) 997-6815
                            



                                Rinker Health Science Campus
                            

9401 Jeronimo Road
Irvine, CA 92618



                            © 2015 Chapman University
                        



Save





                /_featured/Default.xml
            

                Default
            

                Default
            

                Do Not Show
            

                Do Not Show
            






   
	Chapman University



   




 

 
				May 27, 2023			

 




2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog 







Select a Catalog
 2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog
2022-2023 Graduate Catalog
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]



  
																		
																		 
															

















Global Search








Catalog Search 

Choose Search Location



Select an option
Courses
Degrees
Hierarchy Items
Other Content
Entire Catalog









Search Keyword Field




Whole Word/Phrase




					Advanced Search				














Catalog Navigation




  Catalog Home
  Message from the President 
  Non-Discrimination Policy and Annual Security Report 
  Academic Calendar 
  General Information 
  Undergraduate Admission 
  Expenses and Financial Aid 
  Student Life 
  Student Services 
  Academic Policies and Procedures 
  Undergraduate Degree Requirements 
 
  The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics 
  Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies 
  Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences 
  Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Sodaro-Pankey Undergraduate School of Media Arts 
  Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering 
  Schmid College of Science and Technology 
  Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences 
  School of Communication 
  College of Performing Arts 
  School of Pharmacy 
  University Programs 
 
  Undergraduate Degrees by School/College 
  Undergraduate Degree Programs 
  Graduate Degree Programs by School/College 
  Course Offerings 
 
  University Leadership and Faculty Listing 




















HELP
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 
							  General Information							  
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)  













Highlights
Vision Statement
Mission
Central Commitments
Values and Ethics
Non-Discrimination Policy
Diversity on Campus
A Chapman Education
Accreditation
Memberships
Faculty
Student Body




History
Reputation
Academic and Research Centers
Calendar
Campus
Church Relationship
Arts and Culture on Campus
Alumni
Summary
Endowed Chairs
Endowed Professorships






Highlights
The University comprises the George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics; Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies; Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts; Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences; Dale E. And and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering; Schmid College of Science and Technology, Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences; Dale E. Fowler School of Law; School of Communication; College of Performing Arts; and the School of Pharmacy.
Chapman is recognized for its blend of professional programs, sciences and liberal arts, as well as its distinguished faculty, innovative programs and personalized attention to students. The University strives to develop in students the ability to think clearly, communicate effectively, explore issues from contrasting points of view, value human and cultural diversity and make informed ethical judgments in an increasingly complex world.
Vision Statement
Chapman University will be a student-centered institution, recognized nationally and internationally as a center of academic and personal excellence that prepares our students to contribute to a global society.
Mission
The mission of Chapman University is to provide personalized education of distinction that leads to inquiring, ethical and productive lives as global citizens.
Central Commitments
The mission of Chapman University finds expression through the following central commitments:

Create stimulating learning environments for a diverse population.
Recruit and retain an outstanding faculty that cherishes teaching, research and creative activity as primary professional commitments and that strives to build a creative intellectual community in which the inquiring life is exemplified by a shared commitment among students and faculty to the pursuit of knowledge.
Offer curricula that integrate liberal arts and professional learning in order to foster independent and critical thinking, effective communication and an international perspective.
Create learning, living and working environments that foster diversity, multiple perspectives and the free exchange of ideas.
Affirm our openness to diverse religious, spiritual, political and ethical traditions.
Encourage the linkage between a life of learning and service and vital interaction of the University with our wider communities.
Devote resources in a fiscally responsible manner to support outstanding teaching, scholarship and learning and develop facilities that enhance the living and learning environments.

Values and Ethics
One of the most distinguishing aspects of a Chapman education is the ethical emphasis that underscores all academic and student life programs. Students are challenged to think, examine their values and prepare for their future considering how the world might be a better place and how they might contribute to the world. These values and ethics are based in the distinctive denominational history of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) respecting all persons, faiths, and service to the world, and our inclusive Fish Interfaith Center, upholding the Spiritual Pillar of Chapman University.
Non-Discrimination Policy
Chapman University is committed to providing an environment which is free of any form of harassment and discrimination based upon an individual’s race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status or any other classification protected by law, so that all members of the community are treated at all times with dignity and respect. Therefore, it is the University’s policy to prohibit all forms of such harassment or discrimination among University faculty, students, staff, and administration.
Diversity on Campus
Chapman supports diversity on campus through programs, initiatives, services, and committees coordinated by the Cross-Cultural Center, Civic Engagement Initiatives, Disability Services, the Interfaith Center, the First-Generation and Promising Futures Programs, Residence Life and First Year Experience, the Argyros Forum Student Union, the University Program Board, student organizations, academic division and departments and more. During the academic year, there are a wide range of opportunities to engage in cross-cultural dialogue, experiences, and opportunities that foster a sense of identity, empathy, and community. The programs and services offered support students and seek to increase understanding and appreciation of diversity on campus and within the surrounding community. Student advocacy for diversity on campus is directed through the Student Government Association. Faculty diversity efforts are channeled through the Faculty Senate. The Office of Diversity and Inclusion endeavors to bring students, staff, faculty administrators and trustees together for meaningful dialogue focused on developing strategic priorities and recommendations for diversity and inclusion at Chapman. You can review Chapman University’s statement on Diversity and Inclusion on the Diversity and Inclusion at Chapman webpage.
A Chapman Education
A Chapman education focuses on the intellectual, physical, social and spiritual dimensions of life. Unlike many schools of its size, Chapman emphasizes a personalized approach to education. In addition, a number of programs have received the highest level of national accreditation.
Academic Programs
The University offers more than 40 fields of undergraduate study, and graduate degree programs and credential programs for educators.
Chapman’s undergraduate programs are founded in the liberal arts. The University offers B.A., B.S., B.F.A. and B.M. degrees. As defined in the general education program, the University is dedicated to offering a distinctive education that encourages students to see and appreciate the linkages between their majors and the general education program. See the index listing for Undergraduate Degree Programs .
Information about Chapman’s graduate programs can be found in the Graduate Catalog.
Chapman offers several programs that link together undergraduate and graduate programs to allow a student to complete both undergraduate and graduate programs in a shorter period of time than completing each degree separately. For more information on Accelerated Programs see them in the Undergraduate Degree Programs listing in the Undergraduate Catalog index. Detailed information is also available in the Graduate Catalog.
Liberal Arts
Chapman’s integrated curriculum fosters independent and critical thinking, effective communication and an international perspective in the major and across fields. These principles provide students the educational foundation they need to succeed in all their endeavors.
Professional Schools
Chapman offers professional programs in business, pharmacy, education, film and television, law, music and more. Professional programs connect the intellectual to the practical and integrate academic studies with realistic challenges.
Co-Curricular Learning
Learning outside the classroom is vital. Chapman strives to provide experiences and inspiration necessary for a balanced life-a life of giving, inner growth and self-realization. Chapman offers a rich and varied range of activities and opportunities, tailored to help students explore their interests.
General Education
The General Education program reflects the University’s mission to provide its students with a personalized education of distinction that leads to inquiring, ethical and productive lives as global citizens. The program is thus flexible, but enables all students to develop ability in critical inquiry, gain breadth and depth of knowledge, integrate knowledge within and across disciplines, cultivate ethical awareness in learning and practice, engage in experiential learning as thoughtful, principled citizens and become independent thinkers able to sustain a lifelong desire for intellectual growth.
For further information on the Chapman University General Education Program see General Education Program  in the Undergraduate Degree Requirements section of the catalog.
Chapman General Education Courses
For information and links to listings of general education courses by category, go to the General Education Program homepage.
University Honors Program
The Chapman University Honors program is a broad interdisciplinary course of study based on great books and events from cultures around the world. Students and faculty concentrate on mutually critical exchanges between the classics of human cultures and the contemporary world. The goal of these dialogical exchanges is collaborative and intentional learning in which students and faculty together connect enduring and emerging ideas, drawing on shared texts, lectures, seminar discussions and cultural experiences.
Students in this university-wide program are required to complete 8 honors courses for a minimum of 24 credits. They select from a variety of courses in three main categories (human sciences, natural sciences and social sciences). During their first year in the program, honors students enroll in the three-credit course, Honors Forum, and complete the Honors program with the 3-credit course, Honors Capstone.
Completion of the program satisfies the General Education Exploration Focus (Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster); select courses may also satisfy major, minor, other General Education and/or elective requirements.
Applicants typically have first-rate GPAs and highly competitive SAT and ACT scores. Other criteria may include outstanding leadership and/or creative achievement, community involvement and a range of interests and experiences. The program best serves students who approach their education in a mature and responsible manner.
Acceptance to the program is limited. Students must submit a separate application for admission to the Honors program, in addition to applying for admission to the University. Students already at Chapman may also apply for admission, prior to accumulating 60 credits. Transfer students who come to Chapman after completing 60 credits and are accepted into the program are required to complete 15 credits, including the three credit course, Honors Forum, at least one course from each of the three main categories and complete the Honors program with the three credit course, Honors Capstone. For more information and applications visit the University Honors Program webpage.
Accreditation
Chapman University is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, Senior College and University Commission (985 Atlantic Avenue, Suite 100, Alameda, CA 94501, (510) 748-9001). Chapman University is also proud to have many of its programs nationally accredited through the following accreditors:

Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education
Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant
American Bar Association
American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business
California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education
Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education
Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association
Council for the Accreditation of Education Preparation
International School Psychology Association
National Association of School Psychologists
National Association of Schools of Music
National Association of Schools of Dance
National Association of Schools of Theatre

Memberships
Chapman University is a member of the Independent Colleges of Southern California, the Association of American Colleges and Universities, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the College Entrance Examination Board, the Western College Association, the Association of Independent California Colleges and Universities, the American Council on Education, the American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, the Division of Higher Education of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), the Council of Graduate Schools, and the Western Association of Graduate Schools. The Fowler School of Law is a member of the Association of American Law Schools (AALS).
Faculty
The more than 550 full-time (544 instructional, 6 research) and 682 part-time faculty represent an outstanding range of intellectual interests, research endeavors and creative activities. They include noted researchers in the sciences and social sciences, gifted artists, prolific writers, talented film makers and widely published and recognized scholars.
As a community, the faculty is comprised of people who connect active scholarship and creative activity with teaching and learning as a bridge between research and practice. Their research and creative work informs both their teaching and their lives in ways that enable students to see the value of a commitment to lifelong learning. Some 86% hold terminal degrees and 45 percent are tenured. Full-time faculty teach two to three courses a term.
Student Body
The 2020-21 student body population was 9761, 2357 of whom are graduate students. Chapman welcomes students from around the country and the world. Over 60 countries are represented among Chapman’s international student body. Enrollment has steadily grown since the early 1990s. Chapman upholds its tradition of providing personalized education to students by maintaining a faculty to student ratio of 1:13.
History
In the late 1840s, a group that would come to be known as the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) headed for California, spurred by visions of gold. That dream died, but by the 1860s members had settled in Woodland, where they built a school, Hesperian College, which opened its doors on March 4,1861. The date is notable: They timed the opening to coincide with the Inauguration of Abraham Lincoln as the 16th U.S. President. The school welcomed women as well as men and students of all races - a radical concept for that day. No one could have known it at the time, but the seeds of Hesperian would eventually grow to become Chapman University.
After many years and ambitious initiatives, in 1919 a prominent orange grower and trusted Disciples leader, Charles C. Chapman, challenged Disciples members to match his gift of $400,000 toward establishing a college in Los Angeles. That challenge was met, and land was purchased on Vermont Avenue, where a college soon grew. In 1934, to honor C.C. Chapman’s legacy, the college was renamed Chapman College. Many more challenges have been faced in the decades that have followed, including Chapman’s 1954 move from Los Angeles to a new campus in Orange. But even as Chapman College became Chapman University, the founders’ commitment to inclusion and civil discourse that bridges divides not only has endured, but it has expanded and been embraced by new generations of Chapman family members.
Reputation
Chapman University is California’s third-largest private university and is highly competitive in national rankings.

Chapman University is among the top universities in the nation, according to rankings from U.S. News & World Report. In 2019, Chapman was designated a top-tier institution – an indication of the university’s rising reputation, world-class faculty and growing research programs.
Chapman is categorized by the Carnegie Classification as an R2 “high research activity” institution and it consistently ranks as a top producer of Fulbright Scholars..
In student selectivity, Chapman has ranked first or second in U.S. News for the past decade, a direct tribute to the quality of our students.
The university has also earned accolades from U.S. News & World Report for excellence in undergraduate teaching. In addition, The Princeton Review calls Chapman an “extraordinary blend of liberal arts, science and professional programs,” as well as one of the nation’s best institutions for undergraduate education.
Since 1993, Chapman has established more than 50 endowed chairs and professorships and has received grants from the nation’s most prestigious foundations.
The media recognize Chapman’s value as well: The Orange County Register has called Chapman “one of the hottest private schools in California,” The Washington Post lists Chapman as a “hidden gem” among U.S. universities, and Kiplinger’s says Chapman is among the best values in higher education.

Academic and Research Centers
A wide variety of study and research opportunities are available through Chapman’s academic and research centers. These include:

A. Gary Anderson Center for Economic Research
Albert Schweitzer Center
Barry and Phyllis Rodgers Center for Holocaust Education
C. Larry Hoag Center for Real Estate and Finance
Center for American War Letters
Center for Demographics and Public Policy
Center for Global Trade and Development
Center of Excellence in Earth Systems Modeling and Observations
Center for Targeted Drug Delivery
Chapman Institute for Quantum Studies
Economic Science Institute
Institute for Excellence in Teaching and Learning
Institute for Interdisciplinary Brain and Behavior Sciences
Institute for the Study of Religion, Economics and Society
John Fowles Center for Creative Writing
Military and Veterans’ Law Institute
Ralph W. Leatherby Center for Entrepreneurship and Business Ethics
Smith Institute for Political Economy and Philosophy
Thompson Policy Institute on Disability and Autism
Walter Schmid Center for International Business

Students may work with faculty on specific research projects as well as participate in special programs including guest lectures, film screenings, panels and seminars.
Calendar
Chapman’s academic year is on a 4-1-4 calendar.
Fall classes begin in late August and end just prior to Christmas.
An interterm session is held in January, offering special opportunities for students to participate in travel courses or take experimental courses. The course offerings in interterm are optional for students, and are limited. Students should not rely on interterm classes to fulfill their requirements.
The spring term begins at the end of January and ends in May. Four summer sessions are scheduled from the end of May through mid-August. Classes are offered during the day and evenings. 
A detailed academic calendar can be found under the Academic Calendar  section of the catalog.
Campus
Location and Buildings
Chapman University is located in the heart of Orange County, California, an exciting and ever-changing nexus of technology, business and the arts. The beautiful, tree-lined campus in Orange has been rated “the number one place to live in North America” by Places Rated Almanac. A blend of new, state-of-the-art and historic buildings on Chapman’s campus offers students the latest educational and technological resources. Among recent additions to the campus:

Keck Center for Science and Engineering, opened in fall 2018, houses programs in Schmid College of Science and Technology and Fowler School of Engineering. At 140,000 square feet, Keck Center is the largest and most ambitious building in the university’s history.
The Harry and Diane Rinker Health Science Campus in Irvine houses classrooms and laboratories for graduate students in the Chapman University School of Pharmacy, Doctoral Physical Therapy Program, the Master of Medical Science Physician Assistant Studies Program and other graduate health science programs in Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences.
Marybelle and Sebastian P. Musco Center for the Arts, is an elegant 1,044-seat high-tech professional arts venue that can accommodate full-scale Broadway, opera, ballet and other touring productions, as well as Chapman student performances.
The Hilbert Museum of California Art, exhibits and celebrates the unique California Scene Painting movement that flourished roughly 1920-1970, depicting important growth and change in the Golden State.

Chapman University campuses are less than 10 miles from world-renowned beaches, while mountains and deserts are within an hour’s drive. San Diego and Mexico are just 90 miles south of the campus in Orange. Acclaimed recreation and entertainment venues are just minutes from the university, including Disneyland, Segerstrom Center for the Arts, the Anaheim Convention Center, Bowers Museum of Cultural Art, Knott’s Berry Farm, Angel Stadium and the Honda Center. The major attractions of Los Angeles entertainment and industry are within commuting distance, including the Getty Center, Walt Disney Concert Hall, L.A. County Museum of Art and the Hollywood Bowl.
Interactive Campus Map
Chapman University is proud to introduce an interactive campus map webpage. This comprehensive resource will help get visitors to Chapman University. Find University buildings, department and school locations, parking and dining options, emergency locations, and even bathrooms and ATMs. The map is designed to sync with a phone’s Google Map app for ease of use. This interactive campus map assist visitors in finding information about the accessibility of campus locations.
Lactation Stations
Chapman University recognizes the importance of helping nursing parents feel welcome on campus and wants to ensure they have the resources they need to balance work, family, and education. The Lactation stations provide a secure, private, restful, and sanitary environment for breastfeeding or pumping. All Lactation Stations within the University community are equipped with a comfortable chair, table, electrical outlets, and refrigeration. Further information on Title IX protections for parents and pregnant students is provided on the Pregnant and Parenting Students webpage, including information on lacation station locations and requesting use.

Non-Gender Identified Restrooms
Chapman University is deeply committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and welcoming campus for all students, staff, faculty, and visitors. All individuals have equal opportunity to use the restroom facilities correspond to their own gender identity. Those who do not identify with the gender binary may determine whichever facility is the most appropriate and most comfortable for them. No individual is required to provide any documentation of their gender identity in order to access any facility corresponding to their own gender identity.
Chapman University is actively working toward increasing the number of non-gender-identified restroom facilities on campus. View the interactive campus map of all single-stall and non-gender-identified restroom. For more information visit Chapman University’s Gender-Inclusive Policies website. Chapman’s efforts on diversity and inclusion are described on the University’s Diversity and Inclusion website and the University’s work with Title IX is located on its Title IX website. 
Church Relationship
Chapman’s roots are firmly grounded in its historic covenant with our founders, the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ). That rich spiritual legacy lives on through Chapman’s focus on the development of the ethical, spiritual and intellectual person. A variety of religious studies courses and spiritual programming activities are offered, but not required. The dean of the chapel oversees an active interfaith program designed to meet the spiritual needs of the University’s students, faculty and staff. A full-time director of church relations strengthens the University’s covenant with the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) as well as provides programs for the broader community. As of 2010, Chapman University is also recognized by the United Church of Christ as a church-related school. Honoring this connection, there is a special student ministry and scholarship program for students from Disciples and United Church of Christ backgrounds. Both the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and the United Church of Christ respect the many paths to God and strongly support Chapman’s nurturing of students, faculty and staff of all faith backgrounds, as well as those who are atheist or agnostic. (For more information about the Disciples and United Church of Christ program visit the Office of Church Relations webpage.) 
Chapman University embraces four pillars of education: intellectual, social, physical, and spiritual. The dean of the chapel supports a host of religious and spiritual groups including progressive and evangelical Protestants, Roman Catholics, Latter-day Saints, Jews, Muslims, Buddhists, Baha’is, Shikhs, Wiccans and those exploring meditation, health and healing and intersections between religion and other intellectual disciplines. New groups may be formed to support the interests and needs of the current student body. Major religious conferences and speakers are hosted each year. (For more information please visit the Fish Interfaith Center webpage.)
In addition to the chaplaincy services of the director and associate director of church relations and the dean of the chapel, there is also a director of Jewish life and a director of Muslim life who serve their unique populations in addition to the entire campus.
The beautiful Fish Interfaith Center houses the Wallace All Faiths Chapel, Wilkinson Founders Chapel, Yoder Sanctuary, Peterson Conference Room, The Fashionables Courtyard, Dee’s Garden of the Senses, a lounge, administrative offices and a columbarium. A team of internationally known architects and artists cooperated in the design of this inspirational and award-winning sacred space, which opened in 2004.
Arts and Culture on Campus
Chapman University’s beautiful 1,044 seat Marybelle and Sebastian P. Musco Center for the Arts, provides a stunning, state-of-the-art venue for top touring artists and ensembles as well as performances by Chapman student.
Chapman’s Hall-Musco Conservatory of Music and Departments of Theatre and Dance offer student and faculty performances year-round. Chapman’s Dodge College of Film and Media Arts offers many screenings of popular movies, documentaries and international films, as well as presenting student and professional film festivals.
Chapman’s critically acclaimed Hilbert Museum of California Art displays an array of paintings by some of California’s leading artists, including Millard Sheets, Mary Blair, Emil Kosa Jr. and Milford Zornes, in ever-changing exhibitions. The Escalette Permanent Collection of Art, with paintings, prints, photographs and sculptures by many of the world’s leading contemporary artists, is located in classroom buildings and public areas throughout the campus. The Guggenheim Art Gallery sponsors regular exhibitions by locally, nationally and internationally known artists as well as student shows.
Chapman University offers a wide range of lectures throughout the year by faculty members, visiting experts and thought leaders from all over the world. Past speakers have included Maya Angelou, Antonin Scalia, Ralph Nader, Edward James Olmos, Cornel West and Howard Zin. The late Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Elie Wiesel, a Distinguished Presidential Fellow, visited Chapman for four years, for one week each year, to meet with student and present talks for the campus community and the public. Chapman’s Holocaust Lecture Series, an annual event presented by the Rodgers Center for Holocaust Education, draws top experts from around the world. The John Fowles Literary Series offers readings and signings by top international novelists and poets, including such luminaries as Sir Salman Rushdie and, in 2017, Novel Laureate Federico Garcia Lorca.
Alumni
The Chapman University alumni network encompasses more than 50,000 undergraduate and graduate alumni across the globe. Chapman is committed to keeping alumni connected to their alma mater and supporting their personal and professional endeavors through programs, benefits and services. All graduates automatically become lifelong members of the Chapman University Alumni Association. Through the Alumni Association, Chapman graduates have access to career resources and networking opportunities, exclusive activities and events, young alumni programs, library access and many other resources and discounts. Alumni also have opportunities throughout the year to connect with current students through mentoring, volunteering, sharing career advice, serving on advisory boards or speaking panels, offering internship/employment opportunities and participating in campus traditions such as the Chapman Family Homecoming Celebration and Greek Skit Night. Chapman University alumni and all members of the Chapman Family are encouraged to “Think Chapman First” and stay connected with passion and pride.
Prominent Chapman alumni include Matt and Ross Duffer ‘07, creators of the Netflix original series “Stranger Things”; Justin Simien ‘05, director/writer of the film and Netflix original series “Dear White People”; the Honorable George L. Argyros’ 59, philanthropist and former U.S. Ambassador to Spain; the Honorable Loretta Sanchez ‘82, who served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1997-2017; Joanna Rosholm ‘07, press secretary to former First Lady Michelle Obama; Steve Lavin ‘88, television sports analyst and former UCLA basketball coach; and Tim Kashani ‘08, Tony Award-winning producer of “Memphis.”
To learn more about the Alumni Association and explore opportunities to connect with Chapman’s alumni network, find us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram, or visit the Chapman University Alumni webpage.
Summary
Location: Orange, California
Organization: The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics, Attallah College of Educational Studies, Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences, Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts, Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering, Dale E. Fowler School of Law, Schmid College of Science and Technology, Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences, School of Communication, College of Performing Arts and School of Pharmacy.
First Classes: 1861 (as Hesperian College)
President: Daniele C. Struppa
Faculty: 542 full-time
Enrollment: 10,001
Affiliation: Christian Church (Disciples of Christ)
Fields of study: More than 40
Annual Cost: Approximately $72,968 for tuition, room and board (double occupancy), books, supplies and undergraduate student fees
Student Aid: More than 84 percent of students receive some sort of financial aid
Athletics: Member of the Southern California Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, NCAA Division III
Women: basketball, cross country, crew (club sport), golf, lacrosse, soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field, volleyball, water polo
Men: baseball, basketball, cross country, crew (club sport), football, golf, ice hockey (club sport), lacrosse (club sport), soccer, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field water polo
Endowed Chairs
Student and faculty research and programmatic opportunities are supported by the following endowments:

Gary Anderson Chair in Economic Analysis
George L. Argyros Endowed Chair in Finance and Economics
Bertea Family Chair in Music
Donley and Marjorie Bolinger Chair in Real Estate, Land Use and Environmental Law
Donald Bren Distinguished Presidential Chair in Mathematics
George H.W. Bush Chair in International Business
James H. Cavanaugh Endowed Chair in Presidential Studies
Irvin C. and Edy Chapman Dean of the Wallace All Faiths Chapel Chair
Hugh and Hazel Darling Law Librarian Chair
Delp-Wilkinson Chair in Peace Studies
James L. and Lynne Pierson Doti Chair in Economics
Rebecca and William Dunn Distinguished Chair in Honor of Vernon L. Smith, Ph.D.
Dr. Royal J. and Dr. Eva N. Dye Chair of Religion and Missions
Fletcher Jones Chair in International Business and Economics
William P. Foley, II Chair in Corporate Law and Taxation
Paul Frizler Chair in Communication Studies
Jacqueline M. Glass Chair in Theatre and Music
Jerrold A. Glass Chair in Accounting and Economics
Belle Griset Chair in Religious Studies
Warren D. Hancock Chair in Natural Sciences
Jack H. and Paula Hassinger Chair in Education
Doy and Dee Henley Chair and Distinguished Professor of Jurisprudence
Doy B. Henley Chair of American Presidential Studies
Larry Hoag Chair in Real Estate
R. C. Hoiles Chair in Business Ethics and Free Enterprise
Donna and David Janes Chair in Experimental Economics
Donald P. Kennedy Endowed Chair in Economics and Law
Donald P. Kennedy Chair in Law
Kloppenburg-Stead Chair in Servant Leadership
Marion Knott Filmmaker-in-Residence Endowed Chair
Ralph W. Leatherby Chair in Entrepreneurship
Robert and Norma Lineberger Endowed Chair in Music
Twyla Reed Martin Dean’s Chair in Film and Media Arts
Sebastian Paul and Marybelle Musco Endowed Chair in Italian Studies
Ronald E. Soderling Chair in Economics and Real Estate Development
Ralph and Sue Stern Chair in Holocaust Education
Robert J. and Carolyn Waltos, Jr. Chair in the Argyros School of Business and Economics
Donald S. and Leonora N. Will Endowed Chair in Peace Studies

Endowed Professorships
Student and faculty research and programmatic opportunities are supported by the following endowments:

Donna Ford Attallah Endowed Professorship in Teacher Education
Irving and Nancy Chase Endowed Professorship in Holocaust and Jewish History
Jim Farley Professorship in Natural Philosophy
Fletcher Jones Foundation Professorship in Computational Physics
Gray Family Professorship in Law
William Hall Visiting Professorship in Music
Gavin Herbert Endowed Professor of Pharmacy
Roger C. Hobbs Endowed Professorship in Urban Studies
Parker S. Kennedy Professorship in Law
John Koshak Visiting Professorship in Music
Lincoln Club Professorship
Hazel Peck Marshall and Dr. Sam Lewis Campbell Professorship in Behavioral Sciences
Martha Masters ‘37 Professorship in Art
Foster G. and Mary McGaw Professorship in Behavioral Sciences
Foster G. and Mary McGaw Professorship in Mathematical Sciences
Larry Parlett Professorship in Economics in Memory of Alan Thompson
Ronald D. Rotunda Distinguished Professor in Jurisprudence
Henry Salvatori Professorship of American Values and Traditions
Henry Salvatori Professorship in Law and Community Service
David and Sandra Stone Professorship in Economics
Daniele C. Struppa and Lisa S. Sparks Endowed Professorship in Italian Studies
Henri Temianka Endowed Professorship in Music
Warren and Doris Uehlinger Endowed Professorship in Business Management
Hua-Cheng Wang-Fradkin Professorship in Scholarly Excellence
Leon and Sophie Weinstein Professorship in Holocaust History
Betty L. Hutton Williams Endowed Professorship in International Economic Law
Frank L. Williams, Jr. Endowed Professorship in Criminal Law




 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 









   

All catalogs © 2023 Chapman University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).









