


Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Conservatory of Motion Pictures - Chapman University - Acalog ACMS™












Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality.






















Skip to Content






















Jump to the main content of this page

             
        


                Some of the content on this website requires JavaScript to be enabled in your web browser to function as intended. This includes, but is not limited to: navigation, video, image galleries, etc. While the website is still usable without JavaScript, it should be enabled to enjoy the full interactive experience.
            












Find information for



Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families





Degrees & Programs


Map & Directories



Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories





News


Events


Social




 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        



Social hub









Search From



All


Blog Stories


Faculty Directory


Events


Main Website






                                             
                                        


                                                 
                                            








                             
                        



                                     
                                

Academics









About



About Overview


Maps and Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts and Rankings


Leadership


Connect





Academics



Academics Overview


Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study





Admission



Admission Overview


Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours





Alumni



Alumni Overview


Events


Get Involved


Career Support





Arts


Campus Life



Campus Life Overview


Athletics


Diversity and Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health and Safety


Residence Life


Student Life





Research



Research Overview


Sponsored Projects Services


Research Integrity


Institutes and Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support





Support



Support Chapman Overview


Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement










﻿

                                        Find
                                    



                                        Log in
                                    



Blackboard


My Chapman


Staff & Faculty Email


PantherMail


My Window








                                 
                            


                                     
                                




                         
                    





 Academics Logo ﻿



 Chapman University Logo ﻿






Academics Main Menu >



Degrees & Programs


Academic Calendar


Academic Integrity ﻿


Academic Integrity Violations


Academic Integrity Sanctions


Information for Faculty


Information for Students




Aims of Education


Catalogs


GE Program ﻿


Planning Your First Year GE Courses


First-year Foundation Courses


Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster


Shared Inquiry Courses


Global Citizen Cluster




Learning At Chapman ﻿


Program Review


Assessment


General Education Outcomes


Experiential Learning




Libraries


Schools and Colleges


Summer Session ﻿


How to Register


Summer FAQs


Who Should Enroll




University Honors Program ﻿


Prospective Students


Admitted Student Information 2018-2019


Current Students


Honors Courses


Activities and Events


The Honors Legacy


Academic Forms and Resources


Probation and Dismissal


Contact Us




War and Peace





Main Menu < Academics Menu



About




Maps & Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts & Rankings


Leadership


Connect




Academics




Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study




Admission




Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours




Alumni




Events


Get Involved


Career Support




Arts


Campus Life




Athletics


Diversity & Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health & Safety


Residence Life


Student Life




Research




Pre-Award Administration


Post-Award Administration


Research Integrity


Institutes & Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support




Support




Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement







Find information for…




Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families




Degrees & Programs


Maps & Directories




Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories




News


Events


Social








                         
                    










 






                                        Connect
                                    



News and Stories


Press Room


Events


Directory


Campus Visit







                                        Resources
                                    



A-Z Listing


Consumer Disclosures


Employment


Maps and Directions


Tuition and Aid


Privacy









                                        Services
                                    



Libraries


Disability Services


Title IX


Emergency Information


Report an Accessibility Concern







                                        Social
                                    


 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    



 





                                    65° F


                                    18° C





                                Main Campus
                            

One University Drive
Orange, CA 92866


                                (714) 997-6815
                            



                                Rinker Health Science Campus
                            

9401 Jeronimo Road
Irvine, CA 92618



                            © 2015 Chapman University
                        



Save





                /_featured/Default.xml
            

                Default
            

                Default
            

                Do Not Show
            

                Do Not Show
            






   
	Chapman University



   




 

 
				May 27, 2023			

 




2021-2022 Graduate Catalog 







Select a Catalog
 2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog
2022-2023 Graduate Catalog
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]



  
																		
																		 
															

















Global Search








Catalog Search 

Choose Search Location



Select an option
Courses
Degrees
Hierarchy Items
Other Content
Entire Catalog









Search Keyword Field




Whole Word/Phrase




					Advanced Search				














Catalog Navigation




  Catalog Home
  Message from the President 
  Non-Discrimination Policy and Annual Security Report 
  Academic Calendar 
  General Information 
  Graduate Admission 
  Expenses and Financial Aid 
  Academic Policies and Procedures 
 
  The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics 
  Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies 
  Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences 
  Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Conservatory of Motion Pictures 
  Dale E. Fowler School of Law 
  Schmid College of Science and Technology 
  Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences 
  School of Communication 
  College of Performing Arts 
  School of Pharmacy 
 
  Graduate Degrees by School/College 
  Graduate Degree Programs 
  Course Offerings 
 
  University Leadership and Faculty Listing 
  Graduate Degree Program Advisors 




















HELP
2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 
							  Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Conservatory of Motion Pictures							  
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)  








Stephen Galloway, M.A., Dean
Michael Kowalski, M.A., Senior Associate Dean
Pavel Jech, M.F.A., Associate Dean and Chief Academic Officer
Dan Leonard, M.F.A., Associate Dean and Chief Technology Officer
 
Professors: Badham, Bettman, Blaustein, Cheney, Chichester, Coolidge, Dill, Fredrick, Gulino, Jech, Jensen, Kowalski, Leonard, Rose, Seydor, Slowensky, Ward;
Artistic Professor: Swimmer;
Professor of Practice of Entertainment Law: Funk;
Associate Professors: Arundale, Carman, Fuery, Gardner, Goldberg, Jones, Kost, Lane, Lee, Lysak, Nathan, Rubin, Schwartz, Wolansky;
Artistic Associate Professors: Goodman, Knox, Marcus, Miranda-Ramirez, Rosenberg, Rowe, Thibault, Warren;
Assistant Professors: Aldridge, Finch, Fugate, Rosenthal, Young;
Artistic Assistant Professors: Condon, De la Torre Dubreuil, Dutcher, Green, Hirsen, Isaacs, Lavelle, Pavelin, Rote, Trela;
Instructor: Walther.

The graduate programs are housed in the Conservatory of Motion Pictures within the Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts.
The Master of Arts in Film Studies program provides students with an in-depth knowledge of film history, film theory and film analysis and an intense academic and creative research experience.
The Master of Fine Arts in Documentary Filmmaking prepares students to develop strong original content as documentary storytellers in the fields of film and television.
The Master of Fine Arts in Film Production program provides students with a specialized course of study that prepares them for production-oriented careers in the film and television arts as directors, editors, cinematographers or sound designers.
The Master of Fine Arts in Film and Television Producing program provides students with a course of study that prepares them for careers as producers or business and creative executives in the film and television arts.
The Master of Fine Arts in Production Design program provides students with a course of study that prepares them for careers as production designers, art directors and set designers in the film and television arts.
The Master of Fine Arts in Screenwriting program provides students with a course of study that prepares them for careers as writers in the film and television arts.
The Master of Fine Arts in Television Writing and Producing provides students with direct experience in both writing and producing, preparing them not only to create the vision of a show as a writer but also to realize that vision as a producer managing the processes of production.
The Master of Business Administration/Master of Fine Arts in Film and Television Producing offered in collaboration with the Argyros School of Business and Economics provides unique training to students who want to develop their skills in business administration with a focus on business practices and careers in the film and television industry in management or executive level positions at production companies, talent agencies, studios or television networks.
The Juris Doctor/Master of Fine Arts in Film and Television Producing offered in collaboration with the Fowler School of Law provides unique training to students who want to practice law in the entertainment industry, either as in-house counsel to production companies, talent agencies, film studios or television networks, in law firms that specialize in entertainment law or who want to be film and television producers or film and television executives in studios or independent production companies.
Admission and Prerequisites
The Conservatory of Motion Pictures welcomes applications for graduate study from students with baccalaureate degrees in any discipline. Admission to the program is based on the following requirements, as outlined in the graduate supplemental application for the Conservatory of Motion Pictures:

A baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited institution. Official transcripts should be mailed directly to the Office of Graduate Admission.
Two letters of recommendation from individuals familiar with the applicant’s academic, professional or personal qualities.
Creative or scholarly portfolio list: A listing of activities that demonstrates the student’s creative or scholarly potential.
Personal statement/letter of intent: A statement of intent describing why the applicant wants to attend film school.
Creative or scholarly writing assignments: As outlined in the graduate supplemental application for the Conservatory of Motion Pictures.
Interview.

Transfer or Substitution of Coursework
Students who have taken graduate courses in film and television at other accredited universities may petition to transfer up to six credits of coursework upon approval of a petition by the chair of the graduate programs. (See the Academic Policies and Procedures  section for more information.)
Students who have undergraduate degrees in film or significant, documented prior experience in the film and television arts may petition to replace certain basic requirements with other graduate level film and television courses.
MFA in Film Production applicants who demonstrate advanced professional experience and/or who have completed a degree in a film major may, in exceptional cases, apply directly to the second year of the program (the beginning of conservatory program).
The Master’s Thesis/Project
The intent of the coursework in all programs is to prepare the student for a final thesis project. Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.000 “B” to meet the minimum eligibility requirements to begin work on the thesis project and enroll in thesis credits. Students writing a thesis or producing a thesis project as part of their master’s degree will work closely with a faculty thesis supervisor. Guidelines for successful completion of the thesis process are available from the chair of the graduate programs. Students should observe the printed deadlines for submitting an application for degree conferral graduate form when the thesis project is near completion. (See the Academic Policies and Procedures  section for additional guidelines.)
Master’s Degree Time Limit
For the Master of Fine Arts in Film Production, all coursework and thesis requirements are designed to be completed within three years of the date of the student’s catalog year entry into the program. For the for the Master of Arts in Film Studies, Master of Fine Arts in Documentary Filmmaking, Master of Fine Arts in Film and Television Producing, the Master of Fine Arts in Production Design and the Master of Fine Arts in Screenwriting, all coursework and thesis requirements are designed to be completed within two years of the date of the student’s catalog year entry into the program. Students may not deviate from their assigned program curriculum (see requirements for the degree) in any semester without the consent of the chair of the graduate programs. An official leave of absence form (available from the Office of the University Registrar) must be approved in the event a student is unable to take required classes during any semester while in residence. A detailed explanation of the reasons for needing a leave of absence and a proposed timeline for completion of degree requirements will be required for approval. A leave of absence may not exceed two years.
Persons failing to notify the Dodge College of a leave of absence will be subject to:

Reapplication to the degree program and any new admission guidelines in effect at that time.
Completion of any new or additional coursework and thesis requirements in place at the time the student wishes to resume study and/or complete the thesis.

Under no circumstances will a leave of absence be granted or a student be readmitted after seven years from the date of initial enrollment.
All degree requirements, including the thesis project, must be completed within seven years.
Student Code of Conduct
The collaborative nature of the MFA conservatory programs requires cooperation and participation by every student. Students are expected to collaborate and work collegially with their faculty and peers.

DegreesMaster of Arts

• 
Film Studies, M.A.


Master of Fine Arts

• 
Documentary Filmmaking, M.F.A.
• 
Film and Television Producing, M.F.A.
• 
Film Production, M.F.A.
• 
Production Design, M.F.A.
• 
Screenwriting, M.F.A.
• 
Television Writing and Producing, M.F.A.


Joint Degree Program

• 
Joint Juris Doctor/Master of Fine Arts in Film and Television Producing, J.D./M.F.A.
• 
Joint Master of Business Administration/Master of Fine Arts in Film and Television Producing M.B.A./M.F.A.


Accelerated Program

• 
Accelerated Bachelor’s degree/Master of Arts in Film Studies

CoursesBroadcast Journalism
• 								BRJL 531 - Producing the News Magazine Television Series


Documentary Filmmaking
• 								DOC 503 - Producing Reality Television

• 								DOC 516 - Expedition Documentary

• 								DOC 517 - Documentary Production I

• 								DOC 521 - The Documentary Tradition

• 								DOC 523 - Transcultural Documentary

• 								DOC 526 - Documentary Research Methodology

• 								DOC 529 - Experimental Course

• 								DOC 541 - Investigative Journalism

• 								DOC 545 - Wildlife and Environmental Filmmaking

• 								DOC 551 - Contemporary Issues in Documentary

• 								DOC 559 - Documentary Marketing and Distribution

• 								DOC 575 - International Documentary Pre-Production

• 								DOC 576 - International Documentary Production

• 								DOC 577 - International Documentary Post-Production

• 								DOC 578 - Documentary Storytelling: Editing

• 								DOC 580 - Community Voices: Pre-Production

• 								DOC 581 - Community Voices: Post-Production

• 								DOC 589 - Cross-Cultural Documentary

• 								DOC 601 - Documentary Storytelling: Cinematography and Sound

• 								DOC 617 - Documentary Production II

• 								DOC 629 - Experimental Course

• 								DOC 663 - Writing the Documentary

• 								DOC 670 - New Documentary Forms

• 								DOC 697 - Thesis Production

• 								DOC 698 - Thesis Post-Production


Film and Media Arts
• 								FTV 500 - Historical Perspectives in Production Design

• 								FTV 502 - Narrative Strategies I

• 								FTV 503 - Narrative Strategies II

• 								FTV 510 - Industry Insiders

• 								FTV 529 - Experimental Course

• 								FTV 561 - Structure and Function of a Film Festival

• 								FTV 561I - Structure of an International Film Festival

• 								FTV 590 - Internship

• 								FTV 593 - Cross-Cultural Filmmaking

• 								FTV 597 - Music Video Production Workshop

• 								FTV 601 - Filmmaking Outside Hollywood

• 								FTV 629 - Experimental Course

• 								FTV 642 - Agents and Managers

• 								FTV 653 - Film Capitals of the World

• 								FTV 666 - First Shorts/First Features

• 								FTV 690 - Independent Internship

• 								FTV 692 - Internship Workshop

• 								FTV 699 - Individual Study


Film and Television Producing
• 								FTP 531 - Production Workshop I for Film and Television Producing Majors

• 								FTP 534A - Production and Set Management for Film Production (Producers)

• 								FTP 560 - Overview of Producing

• 								FTP 562 - The Development Process of Film and Television

• 								FTP 564 - Film and Television Financing

• 								FTP 565 - Optioning Books for Film and TV

• 								FTP 566 - Story Development for Producers

• 								FTP 567 - Independent Feature Filmmaking

• 								FTP 631A - Production Workshop IV for Producers

• 								FTP 661 - Marketing, Distribution and Exhibition

• 								FTP 674 - Entertainment Law

• 								FTP 694 - Producing Portfolio

• 								FTP 697 - Thesis in Producing I

• 								FTP 698 - Thesis in Producing II


Film Production
• 								FP 501 - Actor-Director Workshop

• 								FP 502 - Acting for Non-Actors

• 								FP 503 - Studio in Visual Preparation and Presentation

• 								FP 504 - Fundamentals of Visual Design and Production

• 								FP 506 - Overview of Post Production

• 								FP 507 - Filmmakers and Actors Workshop

• 								FP 515 - Editing I

• 								FP 516 - Editing II

• 								FP 525 - Art and Craft of Foley and ADR

• 								FP 530 - Story

• 								FP 531 - Production Workshop I

• 								FP 532 - Production Workshop II

• 								FP 533 - Fundamentals of Audio Design

• 								FP 534 - Audio Design Practicum

• 								FP 537 - Fundamentals of Cinematography I

• 								FP 538 - Directing I: Fundamentals of Directing Performance

• 								FP 539 - Directing II: Fundamentals of Directing Camera

• 								FP 540 - Production Audio

• 								FP 541 - Visual Effects for Editors

• 								FP 542 - Production and Set Protocol

• 								FP 542A - Pre-Production Planning

• 								FP 542B - Set Protocol

• 								FP 559 - Pro Tools Certification

• 								FP 568 - Avid Certification Prep

• 								FP 576 - Cinematography for Commercials

• 								FP 577 - Production Workshop III

• 								FP 578 - Fundamentals of Cinematography II

• 								FP 582 - Music Composition for Filmmakers

• 								FP 587 - Color Grading

• 								FP 588 - Digital Intermediate Workflow

• 								FP 600 - Cycle Project Screenplay Development

• 								FP 624 - Thesis Film Development

• 								FP 631 - Production Workshop IV

• 								FP 633 - Intermediate Audio Design

• 								FP 634 - Advanced Audio Design

• 								FP 638 - Master Class in Directing

• 								FP 640 - Editing II

• 								FP 641 - Advanced Editing

• 								FP 660 - Editing III

• 								FP 664 - Directing III: Advanced Camera Directing Techniques

• 								FP 665 - Directing IV: Advanced Directing Performance Techniques

• 								FP 677 - Intermediate Cinematography

Page: 1
| 2

 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 









   

All catalogs © 2023 Chapman University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).









