


Expenses and Financial Aid - Chapman University - Acalog ACMS™












Javascript is currently not supported, or is disabled by this browser. Please enable Javascript for full functionality.






















Skip to Content






















Jump to the main content of this page

             
        


                Some of the content on this website requires JavaScript to be enabled in your web browser to function as intended. This includes, but is not limited to: navigation, video, image galleries, etc. While the website is still usable without JavaScript, it should be enabled to enjoy the full interactive experience.
            












Find information for



Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families





Degrees & Programs


Map & Directories



Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories





News


Events


Social




 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                        



Social hub









Search From



All


Blog Stories


Faculty Directory


Events


Main Website






                                             
                                        


                                                 
                                            








                             
                        



                                     
                                

Academics









About



About Overview


Maps and Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts and Rankings


Leadership


Connect





Academics



Academics Overview


Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study





Admission



Admission Overview


Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours





Alumni



Alumni Overview


Events


Get Involved


Career Support





Arts


Campus Life



Campus Life Overview


Athletics


Diversity and Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health and Safety


Residence Life


Student Life





Research



Research Overview


Sponsored Projects Services


Research Integrity


Institutes and Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support





Support



Support Chapman Overview


Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement










﻿

                                        Find
                                    



                                        Log in
                                    



Blackboard


My Chapman


Staff & Faculty Email


PantherMail


My Window








                                 
                            


                                     
                                




                         
                    





 Academics Logo ﻿



 Chapman University Logo ﻿






Academics Main Menu >



Degrees & Programs


Academic Calendar


Academic Integrity ﻿


Academic Integrity Violations


Academic Integrity Sanctions


Information for Faculty


Information for Students




Aims of Education


Catalogs


GE Program ﻿


Planning Your First Year GE Courses


First-year Foundation Courses


Inter/Multidisciplinary Cluster


Shared Inquiry Courses


Global Citizen Cluster




Learning At Chapman ﻿


Program Review


Assessment


General Education Outcomes


Experiential Learning




Libraries


Schools and Colleges


Summer Session ﻿


How to Register


Summer FAQs


Who Should Enroll




University Honors Program ﻿


Prospective Students


Admitted Student Information 2018-2019


Current Students


Honors Courses


Activities and Events


The Honors Legacy


Academic Forms and Resources


Probation and Dismissal


Contact Us




War and Peace





Main Menu < Academics Menu



About




Maps & Directions


Visit Chapman


Discover Chapman


Facts & Rankings


Leadership


Connect




Academics




Degrees & Programs


Schools & Colleges


Academic Calendar


Faculty Directory


Libraries


Course Catalogs


International Study




Admission




Undergraduate Admission


Undergraduate Application


Graduate Admission


Graduate Application


Affordability


Financial Aid Calculator


Campus Tours




Alumni




Events


Get Involved


Career Support




Arts


Campus Life




Athletics


Diversity & Inclusion


Events


Fish Interfaith Center


Health & Safety


Residence Life


Student Life




Research




Pre-Award Administration


Post-Award Administration


Research Integrity


Institutes & Centers


Center for Undergraduate Excellence


Graduate Research Support




Support




Contact Development


Get Involved


Areas to Support


Alumni Involvement







Find information for…




Prospective Students


Current Students


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families




Degrees & Programs


Maps & Directories




Interactive Map


Faculty Directory


All Directories




News


Events


Social








                         
                    










 






                                        Connect
                                    



News and Stories


Press Room


Events


Directory


Campus Visit







                                        Resources
                                    



A-Z Listing


Consumer Disclosures


Employment


Maps and Directions


Tuition and Aid


Privacy









                                        Services
                                    



Libraries


Disability Services


Title IX


Emergency Information


Report an Accessibility Concern







                                        Social
                                    


 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    
 
                                    



 





                                    65° F


                                    18° C





                                Main Campus
                            

One University Drive
Orange, CA 92866


                                (714) 997-6815
                            



                                Rinker Health Science Campus
                            

9401 Jeronimo Road
Irvine, CA 92618



                            © 2015 Chapman University
                        



Save





                /_featured/Default.xml
            

                Default
            

                Default
            

                Do Not Show
            

                Do Not Show
            






   
	Chapman University



   




 

 
				May 27, 2023			

 




2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog 







Select a Catalog
 2022-2023 Undergraduate Catalog
2022-2023 Graduate Catalog
2021-2022 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2021-2022 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2020-2021 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]
2019-2020 Graduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG]



  
																		
																		 
															

















Global Search








Catalog Search 

Choose Search Location



Select an option
Courses
Degrees
Hierarchy Items
Other Content
Entire Catalog









Search Keyword Field




Whole Word/Phrase




					Advanced Search				














Catalog Navigation




  Catalog Home
  Message from the President 
  Non-Discrimination Policy and Annual Security Report 
  Academic Calendar 
  Chapman University at a Glance 
  General Information 
  Undergraduate Admission 
  Expenses and Financial Aid 
  Campus Life 
  Academic Policies and Procedures 
  Undergraduate Degree Requirements 
 
  The George L. Argyros School of Business and Economics 
  Donna Ford Attallah College of Educational Studies 
  Crean College of Health and Behavioral Sciences 
  Lawrence and Kristina Dodge College of Film and Media Arts: Sodaro-Pankey Undergraduate School of Media Arts 
  Dale E. and Sarah Ann Fowler School of Engineering 
  Schmid College of Science and Technology 
  Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences 
  School of Communication 
  College of Performing Arts 
  School of Pharmacy 
  University Programs 
 
  Undergraduate Degrees by School 
  Undergraduate Degree Programs 
  Graduate Degree Programs by School 
  Course Offerings 
 
  University Leadership and Faculty Listing 




















HELP
2019-2020 Undergraduate Catalog [ARCHIVED CATALOG] 
							  Expenses and Financial Aid							  
Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window)  









The Admission and Financial Aid Offices work together to alert students to the federal and state grants, part-time employment and low-interest loan programs available. Each year Chapman invests more than $92 million in scholarships, grants and loans for academically promising and needy students. In addition, the Business Office works closely with students and parents to assure that billing is accurate and timely. All costs listed in this section are subject to change without notice. The Office of Financial Aid is unable to guarantee that 100 percent of a student’s financial need will be met.
Financial Information
Chapman eBill is Chapman University’s official method for sending student account statements Chapman ePay is the official online payment site and can be accessed through the Chapman website. Student access using my.chapman.edu (click on access epay) or using www.chapman.edu/payments. Students may also register Panther Partner authorized users to receive eBill at this site. All costs listed in this section are subject to change without notice.
Tuition
Undergraduate Students



Per year (12-18 credits per semester)
$54,540


Per credit for overload (over 18 credits) in one semester
$1,695


Per credit for part-time (11 credits per semester or less)
$1,695


Summer school (per credit)
$850



Room and Board
Chapman University is pleased to announce a new, simpler rate structure for campus housing, taking effect with the 2019 semester.
We recognize that enrolling and attending college is a significant financial investment for students and families.
In simplifying our housing rate structure, our focus creates a process that empowers students and families to make well-informed housing decisions to plan financially for the duration at Chapman University.
First year students have a two-year housing requirement. Students residing in residence halls are required to have a board meal plan, which is included in the total cost below.
The two-year requirement applies to students who enter Chapman University within one year of their high school graduation.
Housing rates listed are per semester.



Rate
Residence Halls


$7,760 per semester

Glass, Henley, Pralle-Sodaro, & Sandhu: Triples
North & South: Morlan: Doubles



$8,910 per semester

Glass, Heley, Prally-Sodaro, & Sandhu: Doubles
Sandhu: Suite shared bedroom



$9,810 per semester

Sandhu: Singles
Sandhu: Suite private bedroom




This cost includes the required board meal plan. Students select their board meal plan with their housing application.
Board only (per academic year) $5,120
Apartments
Students, other than first-year students, may opt for Chapman apartments (board plan is not required.)
The apartment rates listed below are per semester and do not include the cost of a board meal plan.



Rate
Chapman Apartments


$5,200 per semester

Davis & Harris: Shared bedroom
Panther Village: Studio double
Panther Village: Loft triple



$6,350 per semester

Chapman Grand, Glass, & The K: Shared bedroom
Davis & Harris: Single bedroom (in 2-bd apartment)
Panther Village: Studio Single
Panther Village: Loft double



$7,250 per semester
Chapman Grand: Private bedroom



Other Fees and Charges



Application fee (non-refundable)
$65


Health insurance plans (per year)
 


 
(required of international students)
$2,040


 
(Optional for others and must be purchased by the third week of the semester)
 


Associated student fee (per year)
 


 
Full-time (12 or more credits)
$140


 
Part-time (6-11.5 credits)
$60


 
Part-time (0.5-5.5 credits)
$50


Auditing (per credit, if space is available)
$100


Health Center fee (per year)
$244


 
(required of all full-time undergraduate students)
 


Lab and material fees
$75 and up


Music instruction (see course selection)
 


Petition (filing charge per form)
$20


Parking permit, full-time (per year)
$278


Parking permit, part-time (per year)
$139


Transcript
$10


Transcript (special handling)
$25



General Policies
Deposits and Tuition Information
A $400 non-refundable enrollment deposit is required of all newly admitted undergraduate students. The deposit is due by May 1 for students matriculating in the fall semester and December 1 for those matriculating in the spring semester.
Newly admitted undergraduate transfer students are required to submit a $400 non-refundable enrollment deposit by June 1 for those matriculating in the fall semester and December 1 for those matriculating in the spring semester.
All on-campus residents are required to submit a $500 Housing Reservation Payment.
Tuition and Fee Master Payment Contract
Chapman University requires that all students who enroll in classes complete a Tuition and Fee Master Payment Contract. The contract informs the student of their rights and responsibilities regarding payment of tuition and fees. Contract is required every academic year.
Interterm
Undergraduate students who are registered and billed full time in both the fall and spring semesters (12 credits taken in each semester is considered full-time for undergraduate students) may take up to four credits during interterm at no charge. This does not include fees for travel courses or lab fees.
Tuition Billing
Payment for the fall semester is due no later than July 20 each year. Payment for the spring/interterm semesters is due no later than December 20 each year.
Monthly billing statements are available online only through Chapman ePay using my.chapman.edu.
Billing, payment and general information is also available at www.chapman.edu/sbs. A student with an unpaid balance owed to the University or a University sponsor agency will not be given official or unofficial transcripts, diploma and will not be allowed to enroll in further classes.Tuition Payment Options
Option 1: Tuition payment in full by semester due dates (July 20 for fall, December 20 for interterm/spring and May 20 for summer).
Option 2: Payment plan enrollment per semester with a $50 set up fee.
Interterm is not eligible for payment plan. For further information regarding payment options, visit www.chapman.edu/sbs.
Late Payment Fee
Payment in full is due by June 20 for Fall, December 20 for Interterm/Spring and May 20 for Summer. Late payment may result in a late fee. Please visit www.chapman.edu for further details.
Payment plan payments that are late or submitted for less than the installment amount billed will be assessed a $25.00 late fee for each installment.
Tuition Protection Plan (optional)
The plan can guarantee a refund of monies paid to the University in the event that the student suffers a serious illness or accident and must withdraw from the University before the semester is completed, but after the established withdrawal dates for tuition credit referenced in this section. This elective plan provides coverage for tuition, fees and room and board charges*. No exceptions will be made to the tuition credit (withdrawal) policy for students/parents who elect not to purchase this coverage. For further information, please refer www.chapman.edu.
*This plan must be purchased prior to the first day of the semester.
Add/Drop/ Withdrawal-Financial Aid
Dropping below full-time or part-time status may affect any financial aid that has been awarded and may result in a balance due to the University. Please refer to the Office of Financial Aid.
Specific procedures for adding or dropping a class must be followed as specified in academic policies and procedures.
A petition to withdraw from the University or drop classes after the tuition credit deadlines does not reduce a student’s financial obligation to the University.
Please note that the dates to withdraw or drop classes for tuition credit differ from those to withdraw or drop classes for academic purposes.
Whether any refund will result from the tuition credit received will depend on the payments that have been made.
Failure to attend class or merely giving notice to an instructor will not be regarded as official notice of drop/add or withdrawal.
*Students choosing to remain enrolled past the last day to drop with refund are obligated to cover all tuition, fees, room and board charges incurred in accordance with the refund policy for tuition, room and board charges.
Tuition credit granted:
Fall and Spring



Within the first week of the semester
100%


Within the second week of the semester
50%


Within the third week of the semester
20%


No refund after the third week of the semester
none



Interterm



Withdrawal on or prior to the first class meeting
100%



Summer



Withdrawal prior to the first class meeting
100%


Withdrawal after the first class meeting
85%


Withdrawal after the second class meeting
75%


Withdrawal after the third class meeting
50%


Withdrawal after the fourth class meeting
none



There are no exceptions to this policy.
Financial Aid Policies
The Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid is responsible for the administration of undergraduate student financial aid and it provides counseling and information to students and parents about the financial aid application process, financial aid opportunities and responsible borrowing of student loans. All students who need financial assistance are encouraged to apply.
Procedures for Applying for Financial Aid
All new students are automatically considered for academic scholarships at the time of admission. There are no special or additional application forms to complete.
In addition to academic awards, Chapman provides scholarships to new students with special talents in music, theatre, science, art, film, creative writing and dance. An audition or submission of a portfolio may be required to determine eligibility. If so, the Office of Admission will notify the student.
In addition to scholarships, Chapman provides assistance from an array of grant, loan and employment programs. These programs are funded by Chapman, the federal government, the state government and various private organizations. To apply, students must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) available online at www.fafsa.ed.gov. Residents of California should also complete the Cal Grant GPA Verification form. More information about the Cal Grant process can be found online at www.calgrants.org.
When completing the FAFSA, please be sure to list “Chapman University, Orange, California” when prompted online. The Title IV school code for Chapman is 001164.
The FAFSA may be completed as early as October 1. The priority filing date for completing the FAFSA is March 2. Grants, loans and employment may be awarded to students who apply after these dates; however, funds may be exhausted in some programs.
Please contact the Office of Financial Aid with questions at (714) 997-6741. A toll-free telephone number also is available at (888) CU-APPLY. In addition to calling the Office of Financial Aid, the federal government can be contacted for information about completing the FAFSA at (800) 4 FED AID.
Financial Aid Programs
Federal Student Aid
Federal programs administered by the Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid include the Federal Pell Grant, the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) and the Federal Work Study program (FWS), which provides opportunities for part-time employment. Chapman University participates in the Federal Direct Loan program including the Direct Parent Plus Loan and Graduate Plus Loan programs, all of which must be repaid. Federal grant programs are typically reserved for undergraduate students. Detailed information is available from the Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid.
State of California Financial Aid
The State of California provides Cal Grants to financially and academically eligible students. Eligibility criteria change each year based on appropriations from the state legislature and the number of applicants. The Cal Grant A and Cal Grant B programs are available to undergraduates who are residents of California.
Chapman University Scholarships
Each year, Chapman University provides over $52 million to undergraduate students who have demonstrated outstanding academic performance and over $1 million to those who demonstrate special talents. For first-year students, academic scholarships are awarded on the basis of high school grades and admissions test scores. Transfer students are awarded academic scholarships based on grades received at other colleges and universities. Scholarships for special talents are awarded by the faculty. Application information is available from the Office of Admission.
Panther Alumni Awards
Undergraduate students attending Chapman receive a $2,000 grant each year if one or both their parents are graduates of Chapman or if a sibling is a graduate of Chapman. These grants may be renewed for up to four years of undergraduate study.
Chapman Grants
These grants are designed to offset direct educational costs for undergraduate applicants with demonstrated financial need. Recipients must maintain a minimum of a 2.000 (a C average) GPA and a minimum of 24 credits per academic year for renewal. Eligibility is determined by the Office of Undergraduate Financial Aid after considering other financial aid available to the student. In the 2018-2019 academic year, Chapman University awarded over $44 million in Chapman Grant assistance.
Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and United Church of Christ Awards
In recognition of the considerable support received from the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), the following awards are available to full-time undergraduate students who are members of the Christian Church or our partner denomination, the United Church of Christ.
Disciples Ministerial Dependent Grant
A 50 percent tuition grant for dependents of Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) or United Church of Christ clergy is available. Recipients must be full-time undergraduate students making satisfactory academic progress. Eligibility is determined on the basis of academic potential and relative need.
Disciples Fellowship Award
An award to students who are members of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) or United Church of Christ. The minimum award is $2,000 annually for students who are participating in the Disciples on Campus Program.
Disciples Youth Leadership Grant
A 50 percent tuition grant offered to Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) or United Church of Christ students who have served on the area, regional, general or conference youth leadership team during at least one of their high school years. Recipients must be full-time undergraduate students making satisfactory academic progress.
Hall of Sponsors
The Hall of Sponsors recognizes individuals in whose names permanent scholarships have been established through endowments of $25,000 or more. Scholarships are renewable annually based upon evidence of continued financial need and normal progress toward successful completion of degree requirements.
Adibi Family International Scholarship Fund-to support scholarship for Chapman University international students who show great promise.
Alumni Association Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Bayard Bartley Endowed Memorial Scholarship-for students in instrumental music performance within the Hall-Musco Conservatory of Music, preferable with a focus on symphonic music, who demonstrate financial need.
Betty R. Bartley Endowment for Global Education-awarded to help undergraduate students with financial need to participate in the Semester at Sea global education program and its related expenses
Gerald and Virginia Bash Scholarship-awarded to pre-ministerial or religious studies students.
Bernice Brashear Beasley Memorial Scholarship-the purpose is to assist students who demonstrate vocal talent and financial need.
Bella Vista Christian Church Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students who demonstrate financial need and academic commitment.
Bergel Endowed Scholarship-awarded to outstanding students in history or honors programs.
Beta Chi-Vivian Cheverton-Dorothy Ferrin Scholarship-awarded to deserving students who demonstrate academic achievement.
Brady Bergeson Endowed Scholarship-the purpose of the fund is to assist a student who demonstrates the attributes of the four pillars of a Chapman education: intellectual, social, spiritual and physical.
Elizabeth E. and Edward A. Bodie Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Matthew Bowen Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students from Esperanza High School with financial need.
Justine Bowyer Memorial Art Scholarship-awarded to outstanding students in art.
William Brinker Simmons ‘18 Endowed Film Scholarship-support undergraduate scholarships for students with the greatest financial need and eligible for Chapman Grant.  To be awarded to an incoming freshman and same student for up to three additional years. Fulltime undergraduate student majoring in film disciplines and maintain a minimum GPA of 2.75.
Mary Nalle Brown Endowed Scholarship-awarded to College of Educational Studies graduate students pursuing a degree in music education or teaching credentials.
Roseanne M. Bye Scholarship-awarded to a theatre or dance student who demonstrates meritorious success and financial need.
California’s Gold Scholarship Endowment-awarded to students who demonstrate a positive outlook and are actively pursuing ways to improve society as altruistic change agents.
Harry W. Campbell Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in business.
Lawrence and Leslie Cancellieri Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students in the College of Performing Arts demonstrating both talent and strong academic achievement.
Eddie and Marjorie Carlmark Memorial Scholarship Fund-need based scholarships for undergraduate students.
Central Christian Church Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students.
Carol Channing and Harry Kullijian Foundation for the Arts Endowed Scholarship in the Arts-awarded to outstanding students in the performing arts.
Frank Leray Chapline, M. D. and Anna Chapline Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students preparing for the study of medicine.
Chapman Alumni Award-50 Year Club Memorial Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Stan Chapman Endowed Music Scholarship-awarded to deserving music students who excel in music studies and performance.
Marie Coate Scholarship-awarded to worthy and needy disciples students with preference given to members of the First Christian Church of Stockton.
Donald and Ronna Coe Family Achievement in Art Endowed Scholarship-to provide financial support for talented students with financial need who have declared a major in art.
Clifford Cole Memorial Scholarship-awarded for the training of ministers.
Carrie Cooper Scholarship-awarded to needy students in education interested in pursuing a career in teaching.
Joan Turner Cox Fellowship Scholarship-awarded to a graduate student in the teacher training program.
Carl and Violet Crain Scholarship-awarded to needy Disciples students interested in spiritual growth and development.
Donna Cucunato Movement Education Scholarship Endowment Fund-awarded to an outstanding undergraduate student transitioning to a College of Educational Studies master or credential degree program with an interest in dance, physical education, health, nutrition, sports medicine, kinesiology, athletic training or related area.
C. Leroy Custer Scholarship-awarded to music students.
James Dean Scholarship-awarded to needy and worthy students with preference given to those planning a career in journalism.
Woody Deitch Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Richard W. and Marjorie A. Derby Scholarship-to benefit graduate students of the College of Educational Studies.
Max DeWeese Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Frank and Eileen De Santis Family Endowed Scholarship in Italian Studies-awarded to students with demonstrated financial need, a minor, or preferably a major in Italian Studies.
Disciples Endowed Scholarship-awarded to disciples students.
Dharod Endowed Scholarship Fund-awarded to a deserving undergraduate business major who demonstrates financial need.
Marcus Dodson Memorial Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
James and Lynne Doti Endowed Fellowship of the Simon-STEM Program-scholarship awarded to support underserved Simon STEM Scholars students.
Roy and Carmelina Doti Memorial Scholarship-awarded to deserving students in the Fowler School of Law.
Jonathan Duddy Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Steven Dunham Scholarship-awarded to a student in his/her junior year with superior vocal talent, planning to pursue a career in opera and who displays the highest ethical standards and maintains a 2.500 GPA.
Megan Bowen Eckstein Scholarship Fund-for students who demonstrate financial need with preference to ages twenty-six and above.
Marion Wright Edelman First Generation Endowed Scholarship-supports first generation students who have financial need and who desire to use their education in service to their community.
Nelson T. and May Edwards Endowed Scholarship-awarded with preference given to students planning a career in business, banking or finance.
George Ehrhart Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Leonardo Eifert Endowed Scholarship for Imaginative Applications of Mathematics-to support scholarships in mathematics for students who have a variety of interests including music, chess and other highly innovative areas.
Lark Ellen Christian Church of Fullerton Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students from the Pacific Southwest Region.
James and Catherine Emmi STEM Scholarship Fund-supports merit and/or need-based student scholarship in the disciplines of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).
Robert Fahey Memorial Scholarship-awarded to a student teacher candidate with emphasis in mathematics or science.
Jim and Loa Farley Memorial Scholarship-awarded to needy students with good academic standing.
Fedderman Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students in the field of music who show unusual promise and have financial need.
MaryAnn R. Finley Family Endowed Scholarship in Film and Media Arts - supports scholarship for undergraduate and graduate students within Dodge College of Film and Media Arts.
First Christian Church of Huntington Park Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students.
First Christian Church of San Jose Scholarship-awarded first to students who are members of the First Christian Church San Jose, then to other Disciples students who need financial aid and finally to other needy and deserving students. Recipients must be approved by the board of the First Christian Church, San Jose.
Fisher Endowed Presidential Scholarship-awarded to a deserving scholar with good academic standing.
Willis W. Fisher Scholarship-awarded to graduating seniors entering upon the teaching of religion.
James L. Flournoy Endowed Scholarship in Urban Education-awarded to students enrolled in one of the majors offered by the College of Educational Studies. Preference given to first generation students.
J. Robert Fluor Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
J. Simon Fluor Scholarship-awarded to deserving students in business or economics.
Gail C. Fong Scholarship-awarded to worthy and needy students.
Douglas Francis ASBE Scholarship-awarded to deserving students majoring in business.
Laura Jane Frank Memorial Scholarship-awarded to a student with a preference given to a harpist.
Angela Gitelson Friedman Family Flute Scholarship-awarded to a full-time music major with an emphasis in flute at the Hall-Musco Conservatory of Music.
Paul Frizler Memorial Scholarship-awarded to a student in art, communication studies, English, dance and theatre who demonstrates promise of becoming a creative scholar.
Gamma Beta Phi Honor Society Scholarship-awarded to a needy student.
Clyde and Louise Gates Endowed Scholarship-awarded to worthy and needy students with a preference given to those who are members of the Pacific Grove Christian Church or who are Disciples students from Northern California or other students from the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ).
Phillip Gerrard Family Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in music or art.
Mildred and Mervin Griffiths Endowed Scholarship in Music-awarded to deserving students in music.
Elizabeth and Phill Gross Endowed Fellowship of the Simon STEM Scholar-awarded to Simon-STEM Scholars.
Maybelle Edwards Hammel Endowed Scholarship-awarded with preference given to business majors.
William S. Hammel Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Susie Hammond Endowed Scholarship Fund-awarded to deserving students.
William J. Haney Scholarship-awarded to merit scholars with a preference for those pursuing an education in instrumental music and/or modern languages.
Vaughan R. Harlan Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students with preference given to children of Chapman graduates.
Will Green Harton and General Will S. Green Scholarship-awarded to deserving students studying journalism.
Margaret Hashinger Endowed Scholarship-awarded to needy and worthy students.
William Randolph Hearst Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Mary S. and W. Bradford Hellis Scholarship-awarded to deserving students with preference given to students who are residents of Orange County.
Clark Higgins MBA/EMBA Scholarship-awarded to deserving MBA and EMBA students.
Rev. Homer Hill Scholarship-awarded to a Disciples student who are pre-ministry majors.
La Don Giles Hix Achievement in Art Award-awarded to art major possessing talent and strong academic achievement.
Hollydale Christian Church Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students.
Daphne and Will Horst Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in education with a 3.000 GPA.
Ruth G. Hoskings Memorial Scholarship-awarded to needy students.
Hulsizer Scholarship Award in Business-awarded to business students.
Hutton International Student Scholarship-awarded to an International student.
IdeaHall Endowed Scholarship-deserving students pursuing a career in public relations/advertising.
Wilder and Mary Immel Scholarship-awarded to a student with an emphasis in peace studies; preference given to a North California/Nevada region disciples student who is planning to enter some form of ministry-related work.
Andrew and Olivia Johnson Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Erwin Johnson Music Scholarship-awarded to a Chapman orchestra violinist.
Bob Jones Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students with financial need.
Fletcher Jones Endowed Scholarship Fund-awarded to deserving students.
Vaughan Kelley Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in theatre.
Kellison Memorial Scholarship-awarded with preference given to students preparing for a church vocation.
Martin M. and Esther H. Kennedy Scholarship-awarded to graduate students in communications, teaching, business or physical therapy.
Kirkpatrick Music Scholarship-awarded to music majors who are members of the orchestra.
Robert Kuntz Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students pursuing a career in opera.
Albert and May Lee Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students who demonstrate financial assistance to pursue study of law.
Ellsworth Lewis Scholarship-awarded to needy and worthy students.
Leon Leyson Endowed Scholarship-awarded to a student who demonstrates financial need, has a 3.000 GPA and is pursuing a course of study related to the history of the holocaust. Preference will be given to a student who participated in the Chapman University Holocaust Art and Writing Contest.
Liberace Foundation Endowed Scholarship-awarded to outstanding students in music.
Robert A. Lineberger Memorial Scholarship-awarded to a student majoring in accounting who is in their sophomore year and intends to pursue the profession of accounting.
Macino Endowed Scholarship-awarded to needy and worthy students.
Maxwell Family Endowed Scholarship Fund-awarded to deserving students who possess talent and motivation to succeed in college.
Maxwell Family Endowed Scholarship in STEM-awarded to STEM students who demonstrate financial need.
Gary A. Maxwell ‘85 (MBA ‘87) Endowed Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students within the Argyros School of Business and Economics based on financial need.
Paul Mayfield Black Student Union Scholarship (BSU)-awarded to a full-time student who has completed at least two semesters, is a member of the Black Student Union (BSU), GPA of at least 2.500 and demonstrates leadership in affairs of BSU. Recipient to be recommended by Chapman University advisor to BSU. If no student is eligible in a given year, funds will be awarded to a Thurgood Marshall eligible student.
Mayr/Anderson Scholarship-awarded to needy students from California.
Guy McHenry Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Frank E. and Katherine Chapman Melka Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in art.
Jim Miller Scholarship-awarded to Wilkinson College students with good academic standing and an immediate need.
Merrill Miller Scholarship-preference given to students in environmental science, in communication studies, teaching, business and physical therapy.
Marvin W. Meyer Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students with minimum GPA of 3.000, second year student or greater and recommended by faculty committee based on demonstrated service to humanity.
Guy B. Mize, Jr. Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students with financial need who are planning careers in business.
Moore Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Helen and L. C. Moseley Scholarship-awarded to deserving students with preference given to disciples students.
Oliver Wendell Mt. Pleasant Endowed Scholarship-awarded to a merit scholarship student/students majoring in history until Native American studies courses are again offered by Chapman University.
Muth Endowed Scholarship Fund-awarded to deserving students.
Muth Family and Orco Block Company Scholarship-awarded to students; one-third to liberal arts students, two-thirds to business/economics students.
Edward T. Nesbit and Effie Miller Nesbit Scholarship-awarded to deserving students pursuing careers of service to the ministry.
Timothy O’Brien Memorial Scholarship-awarded with preference given to hard-working students.
Ojai First Christian Church Scholarship-awarded to a Disciples student planning to enter the ministry.
Flora Olsen Endowed Scholarship in Ceramics-awarded to students in the ceramics program.
James P. O’Neil ‘69 Endowed Scholarship in War and Society-need-based graduate scholarship in War and Society with preference to veterans.
Margaret E. Oser Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Pankey Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
J. Parrott Disciples Scholarship-awarded to Disciples day students.
Wilbur and Betsy Parry Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Philosophy Scholarship for Religious Studies-awarded to students of academic excellence, personal religious commitment and exemplary moral character who have an interest in undergraduate study of philosophy and a commitment to pursuing graduate work in religious studies.
Porter Family Memorial Scholarship-awarded to a deserving student.
Pralle Foundation Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students who demonstrate financial need.
Mark Press ASBE Scholarship-awarded to business students from Santa Ana, California.
Ava L. Pryor Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Byron Rhoades Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in music.
George R. Ringo Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students studying for the ministry, missionary work or training to become religious leaders.
Gerald R. and Kay Ryer Scholarship-awarded to a physical therapy graduate student.
William T. Salmon Memorial Scholarship-awarded to worthy and needy students.
Donald and Gwen Shaffer Endowed Music Scholarship-awarded to deserving students in music.
Laura and John Shanley Endowed Music Scholarship-awarded with preference given to students in music.
Marcia Louise Sharpless Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in education.
Dixie and Gordon Shaw Endowed Music Scholarship-awarded to students majoring in music.
Edgar Sholund Memorial Scholarship-awarded to students in music.
William Brinker Simmons ‘18-awarded to undergraduate incoming first-year students with the greatest financial need majoring in film disciplines. Awarded to the same student up to 3 additional years who maintain a minimum of 2.75 GPA.
Joni Smith Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
William Stallworth Endowed Law Scholarship-awarded to deserving students in the law school.
Dr. Barbara Stansell Communication Sciences and Disorders Scholarship-to benefit students in the Communication Sciences and Disorders program.
Harry G. Steele Foundation Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Stillwell Scholarship-awarded to students with demonstrated financial need.
Nathan Stillwell Endowed Scholarship in Business-awarded to deserving transfer students who major in business communications.
Don Sweetland Memorial Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Dan Steele ‘15 Endowed memorial Scholarship-for students within Dodge College of Film and Media Arts who demonstrate financial need.
Team Up for Down Syndrome Endowed Scholarship for Disability Studies in Honor of Cade Hudler-College of Educational Studies undergraduate and/or graduate students pursuing a degree in special education or disability studies.
Henri Temianka Scholarship in String Studies-awarded to meritorious students pursuing violin studies at the Hall-Musco Conservatory of Music. If no violin students in the academic term, meritorious students pursuing viola or cello studies shall qualify in place of the violin. Recipients will be required to participate in the chamber orchestra and small ensemble in addition to maintaining satisfactory academic progress.
Theta Sigma Gamma Scholarship (Beta-Chi-Vivian Cheverton-Dorothy Ferrin)-awarded to deserving students.
Town & Gown Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Ken and Barbara Tye Scholarship-awarded to a post-baccalaureate student who has demonstrated exceptional merit and potential as a teacher within the first two courses of the credential program. The candidate will have established need for financial assistance. The candidate must be bilingual, fluent in both English and any other language.
George H. Veeh Endowed Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
Elizabeth (Liz) Wallace Scholarship in Communication Sciences and Disorders-awarded to students that are applying to and attending the Communication Sciences and Disorders Program.
Waltmar Endowed Scholarship-awarded to students in business with a preference given to international business majors.
Alice Weisenburger Scholarship-awarded to deserving students.
W.M. Whitaker Disciples Student Scholarship-awarded to Disciples students.
Harmon and Nadine Wilkinson Endowed Scholarship-awarded to outstanding students with solid academic standing or honors program demonstrating financial need and achieved a 3.500 GPA for admission and maintain a 2.750 GPA for renewal consideration. Preference given to students who are studying in a major offered through the Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences or students participating in the Disciples of Christ Program.
Women’s Campus Club Scholarship-awarded to students who have a 3.000 GPA, leadership abilities, goals, character and evidence of need.
John and Nell Wooden Scholarship-awarded to a third or fourth year students in education; first priority is for a student from First Christian Church, Santa Monica; second priority is for a student who is a Disciples member; third priority is for a student in need.
Young’s Market Company Endowed Scholarship Fund-awarded to deserving students in the Argyros School of Business and Economics requiring financial assistance.
Bernadine L. Zelenka ‘79 and John Lissak Memorial Scholarship Fund-need based scholarships for undergraduate students within Wilkinson College of Arts, Humanities, and Social Sciences.
Nicholas and Ann Ziilch Scholarship-awarded with preference given to students planning careers in Christian service.



 Back to Top | Print-Friendly Page (opens a new window) 









   

All catalogs © 2023 Chapman University. Powered by the Acalog™ Academic Catalog Management System™ (ACMS™).









